content/blog/ai-aissistant-updates.md, before:

---
title: "Streamlit and Assistant Updates"
date: 2025-03-10
draft: false
tags: ["dev"]
summary: 'More Streamlit AI with the AIssistant Project: DBChat, SliDev (PPT) Generator, Speech Rater...'
url: 'ai-assistant-streamlit'
---


## AIssistant Updates

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-Speech" title="Streamlit Speech Rater PoC" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat" title="MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

### DBChat Assistant

We come from [here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/langchain-chat-with-database/).

And I could not resist to combine it:

![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/ai-assistant-dbchat.png)

{{< youtube "KXamTdJA-uc" >}}

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/langchain-chat-with-database/" title="Chat with Data" image="/blog_img/GenAI/dbchat/langchain-AI.jpeg" subtitle="Using LangChain Chains" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat" title="Data Chat Repository" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="Source Code for DB Chat with Langchain" >}}
{{< /cards >}}



{{< details title="Streamlit + DataChat AI / SQL + PyGWalker | Example 📌" closed="true" >}}

```sh
streamlit run Z_ST_AIssistant_dbchat_v3b.py
```

* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-AIssistant/tree/main/DB_Chat

```py
import streamlit as st
from pygwalker.api.streamlit import StreamlitRenderer

from langchain_community.utilities import SQLDatabase

import pandas as pd
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv

from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser
from langchain_core.runnables import RunnablePassthrough
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

st.set_page_config(
    page_title="Use Pygwalker In Streamlit",
    layout="wide"
)

st.title("SQL Database Table Viewer and Chat")

# Load environment variables
load_dotenv()
api_key = os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")
from openai import OpenAI

# Initialize the OpenAI client
client = OpenAI(api_key=api_key)

# MySQL URI (replace with your password)
mysql_uri = st.text_input("MySQL URI", "mysql+mysqlconnector://root:your_password@localhost:3306/Chinook")

# Debug Mode
DEBUG_MODE = st.checkbox("Enable Debug Mode (Show SQL Queries)", False)

# Get the list of tables
db = SQLDatabase.from_uri(mysql_uri)
tables_result = db.run("SHOW TABLES;")
tables = [table_tuple[0] for table_tuple in eval(tables_result)]

# Table selection
selected_table = st.selectbox("Select a Table", tables)

if selected_table:
    df = load_data_mysql(mysql_uri, selected_table)
    if df is not None:
        st.write(f"### Data from {selected_table}")
        st.dataframe(df)
        display_pygwalker(df)

# Chat with Database about the whole database
st.write("### Ask a Question about the Entire Database")

global_question = st.text_input("Global Question", "What are the top 5 artists with more albums published?")

if st.button("Submit Global Question"):
    if global_question:
        response, sql_query = chat_with_database(mysql_uri, global_question)
        st.write("Global Response:", response)
        if DEBUG_MODE and sql_query:
            with st.expander("SQL Query"):
                st.code(sql_query, language="sql")
    else:
        st.warning("Please enter a global question.")

# Interactive SQL Query Section
with st.expander("Run Custom SQL Query"):
    custom_query = st.text_area("Enter your SQL query:")
    if st.button("Execute Query"):
        if custom_query:
            try:
                db = SQLDatabase.from_uri(mysql_uri)
                result = db.run(custom_query)
                data = eval(result)
                if data:
                    st.write("Query Result:")
                    try:
                        query_columns = f"""SHOW COLUMNS FROM ({custom_query}) AS tmp_table"""
                        columns_result = db.run(query_columns)
                        columns_list = eval(columns_result)
                        columns = [column[0] for column in columns_list]
                        st.dataframe(pd.DataFrame(data, columns=columns))

                    except:
                        st.dataframe(pd.DataFrame(data))

                else:
                    st.write("Query returned no results.")
            except Exception as e:
                st.error(f"Error executing query: {e}")
        else:
            st.warning("Please enter a SQL query.")
```


{{< /details >}}


### Presentation GenerAItor

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/creating-presentations-with-ai/


### Speech RAIter


{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-Speech" title="Streamlit Speech Rater PoC" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat" title="MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/whisper.png)

### CV CreAItor

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/when-to-apply-for-a-job/

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/scrap-and-chat-with-the-web


![AIssistant](/blog_img/memes/oldnewjob.jpg)


### Diagram GenerAItor


### Youtube SummarAIzer

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/summarize-yt-videos/

/blog_img/GenAI/yt-summaries/yt-summaries-groq_example.png

![Groq Youtube Summaries Example](/blog_img/GenAI/yt-summaries/yt-summaries-groq_example.png)


### Youtube Script CreAItor

With Whisper

![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/whisper.png)


### Multichat


{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/MultiChat/" title="MultiChat" image="/blog_img/GenAI/langchain-AI.jpeg" subtitle="Using LangChain Chains" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/MultiChat" title="MultiChat Repository" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="Source Code for the MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Commit message:

adding qr tool to aissistant

content/blog/ai-aissistant-updates.md, after:

---
title: "Streamlit and Assistant Updates"
date: 2025-03-10
draft: false
tags: ["dev"]
summary: 'More Streamlit AI with the AIssistant Project: DBChat, SliDev (PPT) Generator, Speech Rater...'
url: 'ai-assistant-streamlit'
---


## AIssistant Updates

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-Speech" title="Streamlit Speech Rater PoC" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat" title="MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

### DBChat Assistant

We come from [here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/langchain-chat-with-database/).

And I could not resist to combine it:

![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/ai-assistant-dbchat.png)

{{< youtube "KXamTdJA-uc" >}}

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/langchain-chat-with-database/" title="Chat with Data" image="/blog_img/GenAI/dbchat/langchain-AI.jpeg" subtitle="Using LangChain Chains" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat" title="Data Chat Repository" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="Source Code for DB Chat with Langchain" >}}
{{< /cards >}}



{{< details title="Streamlit + DataChat AI / SQL + PyGWalker | Example 📌" closed="true" >}}

```sh
streamlit run Z_ST_AIssistant_dbchat_v3b.py
```

* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-AIssistant/tree/main/DB_Chat

```py
import streamlit as st
from pygwalker.api.streamlit import StreamlitRenderer

from langchain_community.utilities import SQLDatabase

import pandas as pd
import os
from dotenv import load_dotenv

from langchain_core.prompts import ChatPromptTemplate
from langchain_core.output_parsers import StrOutputParser
from langchain_core.runnables import RunnablePassthrough
from langchain_openai import ChatOpenAI

st.set_page_config(
    page_title="Use Pygwalker In Streamlit",
    layout="wide"
)

st.title("SQL Database Table Viewer and Chat")

# Load environment variables
load_dotenv()
api_key = os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY")
from openai import OpenAI

# Initialize the OpenAI client
client = OpenAI(api_key=api_key)

# MySQL URI (replace with your password)
mysql_uri = st.text_input("MySQL URI", "mysql+mysqlconnector://root:your_password@localhost:3306/Chinook")

# Debug Mode
DEBUG_MODE = st.checkbox("Enable Debug Mode (Show SQL Queries)", False)

# Get the list of tables
db = SQLDatabase.from_uri(mysql_uri)
tables_result = db.run("SHOW TABLES;")
tables = [table_tuple[0] for table_tuple in eval(tables_result)]

# Table selection
selected_table = st.selectbox("Select a Table", tables)

if selected_table:
    df = load_data_mysql(mysql_uri, selected_table)
    if df is not None:
        st.write(f"### Data from {selected_table}")
        st.dataframe(df)
        display_pygwalker(df)

# Chat with Database about the whole database
st.write("### Ask a Question about the Entire Database")

global_question = st.text_input("Global Question", "What are the top 5 artists with more albums published?")

if st.button("Submit Global Question"):
    if global_question:
        response, sql_query = chat_with_database(mysql_uri, global_question)
        st.write("Global Response:", response)
        if DEBUG_MODE and sql_query:
            with st.expander("SQL Query"):
                st.code(sql_query, language="sql")
    else:
        st.warning("Please enter a global question.")

# Interactive SQL Query Section
with st.expander("Run Custom SQL Query"):
    custom_query = st.text_area("Enter your SQL query:")
    if st.button("Execute Query"):
        if custom_query:
            try:
                db = SQLDatabase.from_uri(mysql_uri)
                result = db.run(custom_query)
                data = eval(result)
                if data:
                    st.write("Query Result:")
                    try:
                        query_columns = f"""SHOW COLUMNS FROM ({custom_query}) AS tmp_table"""
                        columns_result = db.run(query_columns)
                        columns_list = eval(columns_result)
                        columns = [column[0] for column in columns_list]
                        st.dataframe(pd.DataFrame(data, columns=columns))

                    except:
                        st.dataframe(pd.DataFrame(data))

                else:
                    st.write("Query returned no results.")
            except Exception as e:
                st.error(f"Error executing query: {e}")
        else:
            st.warning("Please enter a SQL query.")
```


{{< /details >}}


### Presentation GenerAItor

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/creating-presentations-with-ai/


### Speech RAIter


{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-Speech" title="Streamlit Speech Rater PoC" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat" title="MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/whisper.png)

### CV CreAItor

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/when-to-apply-for-a-job/

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/scrap-and-chat-with-the-web


![AIssistant](/blog_img/memes/oldnewjob.jpg)


### Diagram GenerAItor


### Youtube SummarAIzer

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/summarize-yt-videos/

/blog_img/GenAI/yt-summaries/yt-summaries-groq_example.png

![Groq Youtube Summaries Example](/blog_img/GenAI/yt-summaries/yt-summaries-groq_example.png)


### Youtube Script CreAItor

With Whisper

![AIssistant](/blog_img/apps/whisper.png)


---

## Conclusions

If that was not enough...

How about adding a **QR tool**?

Like the one I used for [this wedding](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/software-for-weddings/#what-i-learnt).


[![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/Z_TestingLanguages/Z_Python/QR_generation.ipynb)

Because the [PIL package](https://pypi.org/project/pillow/) counts as AI, doesnt it?



---


## FAQ

### Multichat


{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/MultiChat/" title="MultiChat" image="/blog_img/GenAI/langchain-AI.jpeg" subtitle="Using LangChain Chains" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/MultiChat" title="MultiChat Repository" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="Source Code for the MultiChat" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
