content/blog/dev-astro-cloudflare.md, before:

---
title: "Astro Web with Cloudflare Pages and CI/CD"
date: 2024-09-24
draft: false
tags: ["Web","Dev"]
description: 'Setup CI/CD for Astro website with Cloudflare Workers and Pages (Github + CF WnP)'
url: 'astro-web-cloudflare-pages'
---

Lets see how to: *Astro Websites Automatic deployment with Cloudflare Pages and CICD, connected with Github Pages*

We can upload the manually generated static astro content to [**Cloudflare Pages via CLI** as explained here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/understanding-astro-ssg-components/#faq).

But how about just pushing the changes to a **Github Repository and let the CI/CD** magic happen?

> Let's do it with the [hugo theme gallery ssg as example](https://github.com/IoTechCrafts/hugo-theme-gallery-ssg) and following the [Cloudflare Devs YT Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4jV8Zz2w9I)


{{% steps %}}

### Astro Site to Github Repository

Push your code to a [Github Repository](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/github-gists).

### Setup Cloudflare to with with Github

Go to [Cloudflare UI](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). **Worker & Pages** -> Overview. Create -> Pages -> `Connect Git`.

> You will Need a Github Account Authentication

### Setup Cloudflare Workers and Pages


{{% /steps %}}

Go to the [Cloudflare UI](https://dash.cloudflare.com), and...

{{< details title="Detailed Process - Cloudflare and Github 📌" closed="true" >}}

...select the **overview, under Workers and Pages**.

Create an App and connect to Github:

![Cloudflare create an app](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-GithubPages.png)

You will need to **authenticate** and select which repo/s will **Cloudflare be able to access**.

![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection.png)

> It works with public and **also private repositories**!

![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection-Authorize.png)


![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection-Deploy.png)

The only command needed is `hugo`, so that the static files are generated to `./public`:

![Cloudflare will build HUGO for us](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-GithubPages-HUGO.png)


> It does similarly as the [GH Action Workflow to Send HUGO to GH Pages](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/.github/workflows/pages.yaml)

{{< /details >}}

This is how it will look in **Cloudflare UI once setup**:

![Cloudflare Workers and Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Github-Cloudflare-WorkersnPages.png)

{{< details title="Detailed Process - Adding Cloudflare custom Domain 📌" closed="true" >}}

I chose `jalcocertblog` as the name of the project.

It will be available under the same name in the [Cloudflare CLI wrangler](/understanding-astro-ssg-components/#faq)

Lets add a domain we have at Cloudflare:

![Deployed CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject.png)

![Custom Domain CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-customdomain.png)

![DNS CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-customDNS.png)

{{< /details >}}


**As Simple as that.**

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  Yep, I own the JAlcocerTech domain and [we can **collaborate**](https://jalcocertech.com/) 
{{< /callout >}}

Now whenever I push changes to this repository, they will be available at:

* Github Pages with free domain: <https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/>
* Cloudflare with my own subdomain: <https://blog.jalcocertech.xyz/> (also the [free one](https://jalcocertblog.pages.dev/))

You can see what has been going on with your **deployments in the Cloudflare UI** at: Workers and Pages -> name of your project, for me `jalcocertblog`.

![CF Pages deployments](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-deployments.png)

For Github, you would go to the [actions tab of the repo](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/actions)

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Github Pages will allow for 25mb+ individual files, but not Cloudflare.
{{< /callout >}}


### Cloudflare Pages vs other Free Deployment Methods

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
See how to setup [Other SSG deployments methods here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/create-your-website/#select-the-deployment-method)
{{< /callout >}}

**Cloudflare wins** in:

1. The ping time:

```sh
ping jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT #~30ms
ping jalcocertblog.pages.dev #~10ms
ping jalcocertech.web.app #~30ms
```

2. And also the http request:

```sh
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT #~0.28s
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocertblog.pages.dev #~0.15s
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocertech.web.app/ #~0.3s
```

Commit message:

improved cf wnp hugo deployment

content/blog/dev-astro-cloudflare.md, after:

---
title: "Astro Web with Cloudflare Pages and CI/CD"
date: 2024-09-24
draft: false
tags: ["Web","Dev"]
description: 'Setup CI/CD for Astro website with Cloudflare Workers and Pages (Github + CF WnP)'
url: 'astro-web-cloudflare-pages'
---

Lets see how to: *Astro Websites Automatic deployment with Cloudflare Pages and CICD, connected with Github Pages*

We can upload the manually generated static astro content to [**Cloudflare Pages via CLI** as explained here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/understanding-astro-ssg-components/#faq).

But how about just pushing the changes to a **Github Repository and let the CI/CD** magic happen?

> Let's do it with the [hugo theme gallery ssg as example](https://github.com/IoTechCrafts/hugo-theme-gallery-ssg) and following the [Cloudflare Devs YT Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O4jV8Zz2w9I)


{{% steps %}}

### Astro Site to Github Repository

Push your code to a [Github Repository](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/github-gists).

### Setup Cloudflare to with with Github

Go to [Cloudflare UI](https://dash.cloudflare.com/). **Worker & Pages** -> Overview. Create -> Pages -> `Connect Git`.

![alt text](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/cf-wnp-gh-permissions.png)

> You will Need a Github Account Authentication and provide repo permissions: https://github.com/settings/installations/56072936

For hugo you would need the `hugo` command to build instead

![alt text](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/cf-hugo-wnp-agujaypunto.png)

You might also need to specify the `HUGO_VERSION` as variable

![alt text](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/cf-hugoversion-wnp-aguja-.png)

### Setup Cloudflare Workers and Pages

{{% /steps %}}

Go to the [Cloudflare UI](https://dash.cloudflare.com), and...

{{< details title="Detailed Process - Cloudflare and Github 📌" closed="true" >}}

...select the **overview, under Workers and Pages**.

Create an App and connect to Github:

![Cloudflare create an app](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-GithubPages.png)

You will need to **authenticate** and select which repo/s will **Cloudflare be able to access**.

![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection.png)

> It works with public and **also private repositories**!

![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection-Authorize.png)


![Wordpress Google Page Speed Desktop](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Github-Connection-Deploy.png)

The only command needed is `hugo`, so that the static files are generated to `./public`:

![Cloudflare will build HUGO for us](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-GithubPages-HUGO.png)


> It does similarly as the [GH Action Workflow to Send HUGO to GH Pages](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/.github/workflows/pages.yaml)

{{< /details >}}

This is how it will look in **Cloudflare UI once setup**:

![Cloudflare Workers and Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Github-Cloudflare-WorkersnPages.png)

{{< details title="Detailed Process - Adding Cloudflare custom Domain 📌" closed="true" >}}

I chose `jalcocertblog` as the name of the project.

It will be available under the same name in the [Cloudflare CLI wrangler](/understanding-astro-ssg-components/#faq)

Lets add a domain we have at Cloudflare:

![Deployed CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject.png)

![Custom Domain CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-customdomain.png)

![DNS CF Pages](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-customDNS.png)

{{< /details >}}


**As Simple as that.**

{{< callout type="info" >}}
  Yep, I own the JAlcocerTech domain and [we can **collaborate**](https://jalcocertech.com/) 
{{< /callout >}}

Now whenever I push changes to this repository, they will be available at:

* Github Pages with free domain: <https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/>
* Cloudflare with my own subdomain: <https://blog.jalcocertech.xyz/> (also the [free one](https://jalcocertblog.pages.dev/))

You can see what has been going on with your **deployments in the Cloudflare UI** at: Workers and Pages -> name of your project, for me `jalcocertblog`.

![CF Pages deployments](/blog_img/web/Cloudflare/Cloudflare-Deployed-GHProject-deployments.png)

For Github, you would go to the [actions tab of the repo](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/actions)

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Github Pages will allow for 25mb+ individual files, but not Cloudflare.
{{< /callout >}}


### Cloudflare Pages vs other Free Deployment Methods

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
See how to setup [Other SSG deployments methods here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/create-your-website/#select-the-deployment-method)
{{< /callout >}}

**Cloudflare wins** in:

1. The ping time:

```sh
ping jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT #~30ms
ping jalcocertblog.pages.dev #~10ms
ping jalcocertech.web.app #~30ms
```

2. And also the http request:

```sh
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT #~0.28s
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocertblog.pages.dev #~0.15s
curl -o /dev/null -s -w "Time: %{time_total}s\n" https://jalcocertech.web.app/ #~0.3s
```
