content/blog/dev-saas-stripe.md, before:

---
title: "SaaS around Stripe API"
date: 2025-10-08T01:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Micro SaaS Essentials","Stripe goodies","Clerk"]
description: 'BiP user flows around authentication layers and stripe paywalls'
url: 'stripe-for-saas'
---

**Tl;DR**

You can get me wrong: automate your payments and dont accept any other form that does not require your attention.

From the quote / post / learnings: sell to the rich, they pay better.

**Intro**

Congratz, you are registered into the app!

Now subscribe to get additional goodies :)

This is not exactly a stripe 101, as I have played with it before:


But just some kind of stripe recap, as there are multiple use cases:

1. Use Stripe + Webhooks + Pocketbase collections as [mentioned here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pocketbase/#syncing-stripe-data-with-pocketbase)
2. Stripe API + Streamlit to allow an user to login / see certain features


## Why Stripe

Bc you can configure your products, prices, payments etc via their UI.

Plus you get a cool API.

![alt text](/blog_img/web/nextjs-admin/stripe-subscription-management.png)

Also, stripe provides a dashboard to manage subscriptions.


### Stripe Products

### Stripe Subscriptions

I tried [stripe subscriptions linkshere](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/flask-cms-for-ssgs/#how-to-create-a-stripe-subscription-link-), for the mental health delivery.



### One Time Payments

People are using them to sell ebooks `https://readmake.com/` or ways to code: `https://codefa.st/#pricing`, `https://shipfa.st/?ref=indiepage`

Or to sell simple microSaaS services like: `https://poopup.co/`


## Stripe Webhooks

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AoSBpZqsRo -->

{{< youtube "6AoSBpZqsRo" >}}


---


## Conclusions

1. Just learn how to do **quick & cool landing pages**, like: `https://codefa.st/#pricing` or `https://indiepa.ge/`

> With a Pricing section having by default the yearly plans discounted (and in a tab the monthly ones)

> > Example `https://fireflies.ai/pricing?billing=monthly` for audio

2. Bring your singin flow into place

> Modern signups look like: `https://www.mailerlite.com/signup` or `https://app.fireflies.ai/login`

3. Place some features behind Stripe.

### What about Clerk?

Clerk is a good alternative to Supabase Auth. https://clerk.com/docs which brings an interesting [Py SDK](https://github.com/clerk/clerk-sdk-python/blob/main/README.md)


{{< details title="Auth Alternatives for webapps...📌" closed="true" >}}


* https://www.reddit.com/r/Supabase/comments/1dvabn6/what_is_the_best_solution_to_use_supabase_auth/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/nextjs/comments/1bvda9r/officially_hate_supabase_auth/?rdt=40537
* https://www.reddit.com/r/Supabase/comments/xaxecr/authentication_with_supabase_is_easy_almost/

{{< /details >}}


---

## FAQ

RLS - row level security is very important!

Make sure that one user can only edit records related to that particular user.

Also **pwd's should be hashed** on the DBs, just in case the DB gets compromised.

Commit message:

better paas reference and diy ebook

content/blog/dev-saas-stripe.md, after:

---
title: "SaaS around Stripe API"
date: 2025-10-08T01:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Micro SaaS Essentials","Stripe goodies","Clerk"]
description: 'BiP user flows around authentication layers and stripe paywalls'
url: 'stripe-for-saas'
---

**Tl;DR**

You can get me wrong: automate your payments and dont accept any other form that does not require your attention.

From the quote / post / learnings: sell to the rich, they pay better.



**Intro**

Congratz, you are registered into the app!

Now subscribe to get additional goodies :)

This is not exactly a stripe 101, as I have played with it before:


But just some kind of stripe recap, as there are multiple use cases:

1. Use Stripe + Webhooks + Pocketbase collections as [mentioned here](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pocketbase/#syncing-stripe-data-with-pocketbase)
2. Stripe API + Streamlit to allow an user to login / see certain features


## Why Stripe

Bc you can configure your products, prices, payments etc via their UI.

Plus you get a cool API.

![Stripe Subscription Management](/blog_img/web/nextjs-admin/stripe-subscription-management.png)

Also, stripe provides a dashboard to manage subscriptions.


### Stripe Products

### Stripe Subscriptions

I tried [stripe subscriptions linkshere](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/flask-cms-for-ssgs/#how-to-create-a-stripe-subscription-link-), for the mental health delivery.

![Stripe Payment Links](/blog_img/entrepre/stripe/stripe101-paymentlinks.png)

Or even better, a recurring subscription to boosts that MRR:

![Stripe Subscriptions](/blog_img/entrepre/stripe/stripe101-subs.png)




### One Time Payments

People are using them to sell ebooks `https://readmake.com/` or ways to code: `https://codefa.st/#pricing`, `https://shipfa.st/?ref=indiepage`

Or to sell simple microSaaS services like: `https://poopup.co/`


## Stripe Webhooks

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6AoSBpZqsRo -->

{{< youtube "6AoSBpZqsRo" >}}


---


## Conclusions

1. Just learn how to do **quick & cool landing pages**, like: `https://codefa.st/#pricing` or `https://indiepa.ge/`

> With a Pricing section having by default the yearly plans discounted (and in a tab the monthly ones)

> > Example `https://fireflies.ai/pricing?billing=monthly` for audio

2. Bring your singin flow into place

> Modern signups look like: `https://www.mailerlite.com/signup` or `https://app.fireflies.ai/login`

3. Place some features behind Stripe.

---

## FAQ

RLS - row level security is very important!

Make sure that one user can only edit records related to that particular user.

Also **pwd's should be hashed** on the DBs, just in case the DB gets compromised.
