content/blog/dev-micro-saas.md, before:

---
title: "From idea to Launch. Building a Landing+MicroSaaS"
date: 2025-09-23T08:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Firebase","QuantUX","Firecrawl","SlubneChwile","Status Pages"]
url: 'micro-saas'
description: 'A Blueprint for using Astro SSGx Authentication x (CSR + WebApp Features) to launch fast'
---

**Tl;DR**

Its all about that straight to the point landing.

> From this meeting/post: *No tiene q aer la mejor solucion tecnica, pero la q arregle el pain point.*

+++ [status pages](#conclusions) *for any service you provide*

> > lets just make the very clear landing that improves the status of  SlubneChwile


And what is so complicated to create one, even when we have: https://github.com/firecrawl/open-lovable?tab=readme-ov-file



**Intro**

The idea is to go fast from the presentation layer (SSG Theme), to the vibe coded features.

* https://www.astrothemes.dev/
* https://astro.build/themes/1/?search=&price%5B%5D=free


On the recent AI audio post, I got sth more than a new workflow for yt.

I got the Micro SaaS concept into my mind, from the theme:

* https://github.com/LaB-CH3/Astro-idol

> MIT | Idol is an elegant landing page template for micro SaaS products built with AstroJS & Skeleton CSS

> > Get also ideas for landings from sites like https://eternalvault.app/pricing/

Because there are others themes, like **Saasify** that I used as a PoC:

Or

* https://github.com/eavinti/astro-landing


**Cool SaaS SignUps/In**

1. https://monday.com/pricing
    * https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday
    * https://auth.monday.com/users/sign_up_new

![alt text](/blog_img/entrepre/landing/monday-signin.png)


## Idea to Landing

Some examples I found:

1. WP + Elementor = https://genkinfy.com/
2. With...Odoo CRM?
3. `https://www.agentpass.ai/`


### Creating a Quick Landing

Having a starting point with an idea is great.

#### OpenLovable

https://docs.firecrawl.dev/use-cases/developers-mcp -> https://github.com/firecrawl/open-lovable?tab=readme-ov-file

> MIT |  🔥 **Clone and recreate any website** as a modern React app in seconds 

#### QuantUX

Quant-UX is a **usability testing and prototyping platform** that enables design and product teams to quickly create, test, and analyze user interactions with their designs.

* https://github.com/KlausSchaefers/quant-ux

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/quant-ux" title="QuantUX | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

![QUANTUX User Interface](/blog_img/selfh/HomeLab/quant-ux.png)


{{< details title="Whats QuantUX? Prototyping and Usability Testing 📌" closed="true" >}}

What Quant-UX does exactly:

- **Prototype Testing:** Allows users to upload and test interactive prototypes of websites, apps, or interfaces to observe how real users engage with them.
- **Usability Research:** Collects data on user behavior, including clicks, navigation paths, task completion times, and other interactions during tests.
- **Data-Driven Insights:** Provides analytics and visual reports based on testing sessions to help teams identify usability issues, pain points, and areas for improvement.
- **User Feedback:** Supports collecting qualitative feedback to complement quantitative data.
- **Iterative Design:** Enables teams to quickly iterate on designs based on test results and improve user experience effectively.
- **Collaboration:** Facilitates communication between researchers, designers, and stakeholders through shared tests and findings.
- **Real-Time Updates:** Uses websocket communication to provide live updates during testing sessions.
- **Flexible Deployment:** Can be self-hosted locally, deployed via Docker, or hosted on cloud platforms with backend services handling data storage and user management.

Quant-UX goes beyond just informing where users are looking on the page.

It primarily focuses on usability testing by tracking user interactions such as clicks, navigation patterns, and task completion behavior rather than eye-tracking or gaze analysis.

What it does related to user attention:

- **Tracks user interactions:** Clicks, mouse movements, navigation flow, and how users engage with the interface.
- **Analyzes behavior:** Measures task success rates, time taken, and navigation paths to understand usability bottlenecks.
- **Generates interaction heatmaps:** Which can indicate areas of user focus based on activity, but it does not provide direct eye-tracking or gaze data.
- **Collects qualitative feedback:** For understanding user intent and experience.
  
If the requirement is specifically to know where users are *looking* (eye-tracking), Quant-UX may not provide that natively. Instead, it measures active interactions to infer attention and usability issues.

So, while Quant-UX helps inform what parts of the page users interact with the most and how effectively they use the design, it does NOT capture actual eye movement or gaze tracking data.[1]

Yes, to summarize, Quant-UX is primarily a platform for:

- **Prototyping:** Quickly creating interactive, clickable wireframes and UI mockups with a visual editor and pre-built components.
- **Wireframing:** Designing layout and user interface elements to represent app screens or web pages easily.
- **Usability Testing:** Conducting tests by sharing interactive prototypes with users, tracking their interactions such as clicks and navigation.
- **User Behavior Analytics:** Automatically generating heatmaps, success rates, drop-off points, user journeys, and session recordings to gather data-driven insights.
- **Iterative Design:** Using test results and analytics to refine and improve designs efficiently.
- **Collaboration:** Sharing prototypes with stakeholders and involving users early in the design process.

Quant-UX combines these functions in one integrated tool for UX designers and researchers to prototype, test, learn, and evolve their digital experiences effectively.[1][7][8]


Quant-UX is not typically plugged directly into your existing live website to capture data. It is primarily a **standalone usability testing tool for prototypes or new designs** before full deployment.

If you want to test interactions on your existing live site continuously, you would need specialized user analytics or A/B testing tools instead, like POSTHOG.

In summary, you use Quant-UX to create test versions of your designs and have users interact with those versions to gather usability data—not by embedding it into your current production website.[1]

{{< /details >}}

In summary, Quant-UX helps teams make informed design decisions by providing a platform to prototype, conduct usability tests, gather user behavior data, and extract actionable insights to improve digital product user experiences.

With Quant-UX, the typical workflow is:

- You **create and upload your design prototypes** or interactive mockups into the Quant-UX platform. These can be wireframes, clickable prototypes, or real UI designs you want to test.
- Quant-UX then **hosts these prototypes as separate, testable websites** or sessions.
- You **expose the hosted prototype URLs to your users or test participants** who interact with the design in a controlled testing environment within Quant-UX.
- During testing, Quant-UX **collects user interaction data** like clicks, navigation paths, and task completion metrics on these test prototypes.
- You analyze this data inside Quant-UX to gain insights and improve your design iteratively.


<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTr8SCqCy4Q -->

{{< youtube "eTr8SCqCy4Q" >}}


**To test quantUX** we can give a try to LandoNorris website: `https://landonorris.com/`

![alt text](/blog_img/web/WebsSnapshots/lando-speed-insights.png)

```sh
sudo apt-get install dnsutils -y #dns resolution
nslookup github.com 
dig google.com
```

---

## Conclusions


> **Doing** is faster than watching.

Applies to [business](https://nav.al/skill-business) and to get that Landing + ChatBot going.

Have deployed couple of services?

Get that cool status pages for your client: https://github.com/rajnandan1/kener

> MIT |Stunning status pages, batteries included!

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/uptime-kuma" title="Uptime Kuma | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/kener" title="Kener | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Or also...

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/beszel" title="Beszel | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Commit message:

better ebooks with calibre and rmd

content/blog/dev-micro-saas.md, after:

---
title: "From idea to Launch. Building a Landing+MicroSaaS"
date: 2025-09-23T08:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Firebase","QuantUX","Firecrawl","SlubneChwile","Status Pages"]
url: 'micro-saas'
description: 'A Blueprint for using Astro SSGx Authentication x (CSR + WebApp Features) to launch fast'
---

**Tl;DR**

Its all about that straight to the point landing.

> From this meeting/post: *No tiene q aer la mejor solucion tecnica, pero la q arregle el pain point.*

+++ [status pages](#conclusions) *for any service you provide*

> > lets just make the very clear landing that improves the status of  SlubneChwile


And what is so complicated to create one, even when we have: https://github.com/firecrawl/open-lovable?tab=readme-ov-file



**Intro**

The idea is to go fast from the presentation layer (SSG Theme), to the vibe coded features.

* https://www.astrothemes.dev/
* https://astro.build/themes/1/?search=&price%5B%5D=free


On the recent AI audio post, I got sth more than a new workflow for yt.

I got the Micro SaaS concept into my mind, from the theme:

* https://github.com/LaB-CH3/Astro-idol

> MIT | Idol is an elegant landing page template for micro SaaS products built with AstroJS & Skeleton CSS

> > Get also ideas for landings from sites like https://eternalvault.app/pricing/

Because there are others themes, like **Saasify** that I used as a PoC:

Or

* https://github.com/eavinti/astro-landing


**Cool SaaS SignUps/In**

1. https://monday.com/pricing
    * https://auth.monday.com/auth/login_monday
    * https://auth.monday.com/users/sign_up_new

![alt text](/blog_img/entrepre/landing/monday-signin.png)


## Idea to Landing

Some examples I found:

1. WP + Elementor = https://genkinfy.com/
2. With...Odoo CRM?
3. `https://www.agentpass.ai/`


### Creating a Quick Landing

Having a starting point with an idea is great.

And a landing webpage is actually what a lot of people outthere are looking for.

#### OpenLovable

See https://docs.firecrawl.dev/use-cases/developers-mcp -> https://github.com/firecrawl/open-lovable?tab=readme-ov-file

> MIT |  🔥 **Clone and recreate any website** as a modern React app in seconds 

#### QuantUX

Quant-UX is a **usability testing and prototyping platform** that enables design and product teams to quickly create, test, and analyze user interactions with their designs.

* https://github.com/KlausSchaefers/quant-ux

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/quant-ux" title="QuantUX | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

![QUANTUX User Interface](/blog_img/selfh/HomeLab/quant-ux.png)


{{< details title="Whats QuantUX? Prototyping and Usability Testing 📌" closed="true" >}}

What Quant-UX does exactly:

- **Prototype Testing:** Allows users to upload and test interactive prototypes of websites, apps, or interfaces to observe how real users engage with them.
- **Usability Research:** Collects data on user behavior, including clicks, navigation paths, task completion times, and other interactions during tests.
- **Data-Driven Insights:** Provides analytics and visual reports based on testing sessions to help teams identify usability issues, pain points, and areas for improvement.
- **User Feedback:** Supports collecting qualitative feedback to complement quantitative data.
- **Iterative Design:** Enables teams to quickly iterate on designs based on test results and improve user experience effectively.
- **Collaboration:** Facilitates communication between researchers, designers, and stakeholders through shared tests and findings.
- **Real-Time Updates:** Uses websocket communication to provide live updates during testing sessions.
- **Flexible Deployment:** Can be self-hosted locally, deployed via Docker, or hosted on cloud platforms with backend services handling data storage and user management.

Quant-UX goes beyond just informing where users are looking on the page.

It primarily focuses on usability testing by tracking user interactions such as clicks, navigation patterns, and task completion behavior rather than eye-tracking or gaze analysis.

What it does related to user attention:

- **Tracks user interactions:** Clicks, mouse movements, navigation flow, and how users engage with the interface.
- **Analyzes behavior:** Measures task success rates, time taken, and navigation paths to understand usability bottlenecks.
- **Generates interaction heatmaps:** Which can indicate areas of user focus based on activity, but it does not provide direct eye-tracking or gaze data.
- **Collects qualitative feedback:** For understanding user intent and experience.
  
If the requirement is specifically to know where users are *looking* (eye-tracking), Quant-UX may not provide that natively. Instead, it measures active interactions to infer attention and usability issues.

So, while Quant-UX helps inform what parts of the page users interact with the most and how effectively they use the design, it does NOT capture actual eye movement or gaze tracking data.[1]

Yes, to summarize, Quant-UX is primarily a platform for:

- **Prototyping:** Quickly creating interactive, clickable wireframes and UI mockups with a visual editor and pre-built components.
- **Wireframing:** Designing layout and user interface elements to represent app screens or web pages easily.
- **Usability Testing:** Conducting tests by sharing interactive prototypes with users, tracking their interactions such as clicks and navigation.
- **User Behavior Analytics:** Automatically generating heatmaps, success rates, drop-off points, user journeys, and session recordings to gather data-driven insights.
- **Iterative Design:** Using test results and analytics to refine and improve designs efficiently.
- **Collaboration:** Sharing prototypes with stakeholders and involving users early in the design process.

Quant-UX combines these functions in one integrated tool for UX designers and researchers to prototype, test, learn, and evolve their digital experiences effectively.[1][7][8]


Quant-UX is not typically plugged directly into your existing live website to capture data. It is primarily a **standalone usability testing tool for prototypes or new designs** before full deployment.

If you want to test interactions on your existing live site continuously, you would need specialized user analytics or A/B testing tools instead, like POSTHOG.

In summary, you use Quant-UX to create test versions of your designs and have users interact with those versions to gather usability data—not by embedding it into your current production website.[1]

{{< /details >}}

In summary, Quant-UX helps teams make informed design decisions by providing a platform to prototype, conduct usability tests, gather user behavior data, and extract actionable insights to improve digital product user experiences.

With Quant-UX, the typical workflow is:

- You **create and upload your design prototypes** or interactive mockups into the Quant-UX platform. These can be wireframes, clickable prototypes, or real UI designs you want to test.
- Quant-UX then **hosts these prototypes as separate, testable websites** or sessions.
- You **expose the hosted prototype URLs to your users or test participants** who interact with the design in a controlled testing environment within Quant-UX.
- During testing, Quant-UX **collects user interaction data** like clicks, navigation paths, and task completion metrics on these test prototypes.
- You analyze this data inside Quant-UX to gain insights and improve your design iteratively.


<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eTr8SCqCy4Q -->

{{< youtube "eTr8SCqCy4Q" >}}


**To test quantUX** we can give a try to LandoNorris website: `https://landonorris.com/`


You can also try with GoClone: *but the tools is not there yet imo*

* https://github.com/goclone-dev/goclone

> MIT | Website Cloner - Utilizes powerful **Go** routines to **clone websites** to your computer within seconds. 


```sh
goclone https://landonorris.com/
#python3 -m http.server 8003 --directory ./landonorris.com
```

![alt text](/blog_img/web/WebsSnapshots/lando-speed-insights.png)

```sh
sudo apt-get install dnsutils -y #dns resolution
nslookup github.com 
dig google.com
```

---

## Conclusions


> **Doing** is faster than watching.

Applies to [business](https://nav.al/skill-business) and to get that Landing + ChatBot going.

Have deployed couple of services?

Get that cool status pages for your client: https://github.com/rajnandan1/kener

> MIT |Stunning status pages, batteries included!

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/uptime-kuma" title="Uptime Kuma | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/kener" title="Kener | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Or also...

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Home-Lab/tree/main/beszel" title="Beszel | Docker Config 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
