content/blog/entrep-wedding-2.md, before:

---
title: "BiP a Micro-SaaS | Wedding Edition"
date: 2025-09-19T12:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["QR & PDF","Web & DNS","Cloudflare API","Porkbun API","SlubneChwile"]
description: 'Firebase + PB BaaS. Everything that can be static, is static 🤯'
url: 'building-in-public-wedding-photo-galleries'
---

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/wedding-photo-galleries/

**Tl;DR**

I got that domain!


**Intro**

We come from [this post](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/wedding-photo-galleries/)

Time to keep building in public the project.

I left them at this stage:

* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/slubnechwile
* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Flask_SlubnyChwile

Because since the last commits, Ive learnt a lot.

And I wont be using Filebrowser or some selfhostable webapp to do the BE part.




## Features

What others are doing?

* https://planning.wedding/pricing

This one is great, yet it seems that the way to get MRR is via the companies who want to seel to the tons of people registering to get married there.




**The free stuff**

**The try for free stuff**

**The paid stuff**

### QR Code Generator

* https://it-tools.tech/qrcode-generator


#### QR Generator CSR

But whatever can be static, keep it static.

Same applies to your QR Code web generator.


---

## Conclusions



---

## FAQ

### Domain Management

#### Porkbun API

On the waiting2landing post and project, I was tinkering with CF and PB APIs:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/waiting-to-landing/blob/main/cloudflare-dns-updater.py" title="Cloudflare DNS API Py Script ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/waiting-to-landing/blob/main/porkbun-domains.py" title="Porkbun API Py Script ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

I Still had to buy the domain via UI.

But I have improved the script as per their docs: https://porkbun.com/api/json/v3/documentation#Domain%20Check

And now it makes more than just quote the price.

1. Availability
2. Price
3. Domain Get Name Servers
4. Domain Update Name Servers
5. What it WON'T do is to buy a domain for you programatically

### Landing Page

The Sassify theme is just awsome: https://astro-sassify.larryxue.dev/


#### Configuring Cloudflare


###

Commit message:

bip and the open startup

content/blog/entrep-wedding-2.md, after:

---
title: "BiP a Micro-SaaS | Wedding Edition"
date: 2025-09-19T12:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["QR & PDF","Web & DNS","Cloudflare API","Porkbun API","SlubneChwile"]
description: 'Firebase + PB BaaS. Everything that can be static, is static 🤯'
url: 'building-in-public-wedding-photo-galleries'
---

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/wedding-photo-galleries/

**Tl;DR**

I got that domain!

+++ got motivated by people [BiP open startups](#about-building-in-public)

**Intro**

We come from [this post](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/wedding-photo-galleries/)

Time to keep [building in public]() the project.

I left them at this stage:

* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/slubnechwile
* https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Flask_SlubnyChwile

Because since the last commits, Ive learnt a lot.

And I wont be using Filebrowser or some selfhostable webapp to do the BE part.




## Features

What others are doing?

* https://planning.wedding/pricing

This one is great, yet it seems that the way to get MRR is via the companies who want to seel to the tons of people registering to get married there.




**The free stuff**

**The try for free stuff**

**The paid stuff**

### QR Code Generator

* https://it-tools.tech/qrcode-generator


#### QR Generator CSR

But whatever can be static, keep it static.

Same applies to your QR Code web generator.


---

## Conclusions



---

## FAQ

### Domain Management

#### Porkbun API

On the waiting2landing post and project, I was tinkering with CF and PB APIs:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/waiting-to-landing/blob/main/cloudflare-dns-updater.py" title="Cloudflare DNS API Py Script ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/waiting-to-landing/blob/main/porkbun-domains.py" title="Porkbun API Py Script ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

I Still had to buy the domain via UI.

But I have improved the script as per their docs: https://porkbun.com/api/json/v3/documentation#Domain%20Check

And now it makes more than just quote the price.

1. Availability
2. Price
3. Domain Get Name Servers
4. Domain Update Name Servers
5. What it WON'T do is to buy a domain for you programatically

### Landing Page

The Sassify theme is just awsome: https://astro-sassify.larryxue.dev/


#### Configuring Cloudflare


## About building in public

See `https://marclou.com/` and the related h`ttps://indiepa.ge/`

> People are even linking stripe to validate what they earn on their startups: https://indiepa.ge/leaderboard

They call it *the open startup*. 

Even Ghost was publishing their ARR metrics.

Or Ghostfolio: https://ghostfol.io/en/open

Dont assume that something that exists cant be improved, like from `https://zenvoice.io/#pricing` to https://github.com/JAlcocerT/serverless-invoices
