content/blog/selfhost-0525.md, before:

---
title: "SelfHosting Updates - Spring 2025"
date: 2025-05-04T01:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Dev"]
description: 'Selfhosted Apps that simplify my workflow as of May 2025: Termix, CheckMate'
url: 'selfhosted-apps-may-2025'
---

Ive been following closely the newsletter from: https://selfh.st/icons/

And these have taken my attention: 

1. https://github.com/karakeep-app/karakeep

> aGPL |  A self-hostable bookmark-everything app (links, notes and images) with AI-based automatic tagging and full text search 

A replacement for raindrop....

2. https://github.com/vijeeshr/quickretro

> MIT |  A real-time app for conducting a remote sprint retrospective meeting 

Having retrospective is really important when working Agile...

3. https://github.com/formsmd/formsmd

> Apache v2 |  Developer-first, open source Typeform alternative (formerly known as Blocks.md) 

An interesting alternative also to formbricks

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/selfhosting/" title="SelfHosting 101 Script to get containers, tailscale and more ready to go! 🐋 ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/blog/dev-forms/" title="Forms | Post ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

4. https://github.com/donaldzou/WGDashboard?ref=selfh.st

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/
https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/how-to-use-wg-easy-with-a-vps/


5. https://github.com/Bubka/2FAuth?ref=selfh.st

As I recently had some trouble with my phone...


6. https://github.com/besoeasy/file-drop?ref=selfh.st


filebrowser alternative!

7. BYOD, I mean bring your own music https://github.com/swingmx/swingmusic?ref=selfh.st

8. https://github.com/tiagorangel1/cap?ref=selfh.st

>  Cap is a lightweight, modern open-source CAPTCHA alternative designed using SHA-256 proof-of-work 

9. Wordpres...but static sites? https://github.com/nityam2007/StaticPress-Docker?ref=selfh.st

## New SelfH Apps


### Termix

Termix, not termux, its being great:

* https://github.com/LukeGus/Termix
  * https://github.com/LukeGus/Termix/wiki/Docker

> MIT |  Clientless web-based SSH terminal emulator that stores and manages your connection details 

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s15a-ysSQE0 -->

{{< youtube "s15a-ysSQE0" >}}

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/termix-ui.png)

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/termix-user.png)

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/SelfH/Termix" title="Termix with Docker 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

```yml
services:
  termix:
    image: ghcr.io/lukegus/termix:latest
    container_name: termix
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "8090:8080"
    volumes:
      - termix-data:/app/data
    environment:
      # Generate random salt here https://www.lastpass.com/features/password-generator (max 32 characters, include all characters for settings)
      SALT: "something_generated"
      PORT: "8080"

volumes:
  termix-data:
    driver: local
```

You can use it to manage devices on the same local network:

```sh
#arp -a
arp -a | grep "192.168.1" #filtered to avoid containers
#ip neigh
#nmap -sP 192.168.1.1/24 | grep "scan"
```

But also the ones via tailscale, even if they are outside your home network:

```sh
sudo tailscale status | grep -v "offline"
```

You can measure the temp of a distant Pi:

```sh
vcgencmd measure_temp pmic
```

### CheckMate

https://github.com/bluewave-labs/checkmate
https://checkmate.so/


> agpl | Checkmate is an open-source, self-hosted tool designed to track and monitor server hardware, uptime, response times, and incidents in real-time with beautiful visualizations.





### Publiteme

* https://github.com/MikeMather/publite.me

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yAJvbF-m5FM




### Recap from Spring 2025

I was covering recently nextcloud...

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/nextcloud-untrusteddomain.png)

and found out about OpenCloud:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ud9FEmNOgLs

https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud

> Apache v2 | This is the main repository of the OpenCloud server. It contains the golang codebase for the backend services.


![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/dockerprune.png)

### I needed recently...


* https://speed.cloudflare.com/



![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/Internet/internet-test.png)

Speedtest CLI from Ookla®

![alt text](../../static/blog_img/selfh/Internet/SpeedTest.png)


{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/IoT/InternetQuality/InternetSpeedTracker.yaml" title="InternetSpeedTracker with Docker 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

See that its running with:

```sh
curl 192.168.1.11:8065/api/healthcheck
```

{{< callout type="info" >}}
It has influxDB 2.0 integration, inc ase that you want to use this with Grafana. Also integrations with: tg, webhooks, gotify, ntfy,...
{{< /callout >}}


## Analytics Stuff

* https://github.com/chartbrew/chartbrew
* https://docs.chartbrew.com/deployment/run-on-docker#run-on-docker
* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chartbrew/chartbrew/refs/heads/master/docker-compose.yml

>  Open-source web platform used to create live reporting dashboards from APIs, MongoDB, Firestore, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and more 📈📊 

Which resonates with my recent post: https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/setup-bi-tools-docker/

## Conclusions

Lately I got to know about couple of new VectorDBs:

* https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus

>  Milvus is a high-performance, cloud-native vector database built for scalable vector ANN search 

* https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector

>  Open-source vector similarity search for Postgres 

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/" title="Milvus and PgVector Docker Configs 🐋✅ ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

* https://github.com/hollowpnt92/docker-port-viewer?ref=selfh.st
https://github.com/hollowpnt92/docker-port-viewer/blob/main/docker-compose.yml

```sh
docker run -d --name docker-socket-proxy -e CONTAINERS=1 -e POST=0 -e PUT=0 -e DELETE=0 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy && docker run -d --name docker-port-viewer --link docker-socket-proxy -p 3003:80 hollowpnt/docker-port-viewer:latest
```

### Better WebAnalytics

Lately I tried littlyx, but I saw this cool post: https://jakubwolynko.eu/blog/202505-hosting-umami-on-vercel/

Also, https://github.com/Litlyx/litlyx which i discovered few months back


### Automated Projects Docs

Wouldnt it be great to have a project documentation automatically and AI generated?

<!-- 
https://git.exadel.com/exadel-ai-practice/accelerator/project-documentation-generator
 -->


* OpenAI API Keys - <https://platform.openai.com/api-keys>
* Anthropic - <https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys>
* Groq - <https://console.groq.com/keys>
* For [Ollama](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/Ollama), you need [this setup](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-llms-ollama/)

1. RepoReader

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader" title="Repo Reader | Forked Project ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/scrap-and-chat-with-the-web/#conclusions" title="Web Scrapping | Post ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


```sh
git clone https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader

python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

pip install -r requirements.txt
source .env

python3 app.py
#An error occurred: The model `text-davinci-003` has been deprecated, learn more here: https://platform.openai.com/docs/deprecations
```

But...it used davinci model which was deprecated: https://platform.openai.com/docs/deprecations#instructgpt-models


2. Scrapping with FireCrawl + OpenAI

I also tried with Firecrawl and OpenAI to give me some readme/ [sample posts](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Scrap_Tools/blob/main/FireCrawl/Z_Scrap_GHRepo/z_sample_post.md) about a given project:

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader" title="Repo Reader | Forked Project ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Scrap_Tools/tree/main/FireCrawl/Z_Scrap_GHRep" title="Firecrawl Scrap GH Repo | Project Files ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


3. LangChain Web content embedd + ask:

In the meantime I discovered that it is also possible to [ask questions about a Web's content with LangChain](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/comparing-rag-and-use-cases/#web-scrapping), for example, [a repository's readme info](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/tree/main/LangChain/web):

```py
    ###Change these parameters and lets go###
    ollama_url = "http://192.168.1.5:11434"  # Replace with your Ollama server URL if different
    embedding_model = "all-minilm"
    llm_model = "llama3.2:1b"
    #user_question = "what it is this offer about?"
    user_question = "what it is this repository about?"
    #target_website = "https://justjoin.it/job-offer/link-group-product-manager-warszawa-ai"
    target_website = "https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat"
    #content_area_class = "MuiBox-root css-rcazos" # Use the same class as in the example
    content_area_class = "markdown-body entry-content container-lg"
```

![alt text](tic/blog_img/GenAI/langchain-repo-webask.png)

<!-- https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-web.ipynb
https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-repo-readme.ipynb
 -->

[![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-repo-readme.ipynb)


{{< callout type="info" >}}
It uses a [local ChromaDB](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-chroma/), Local embedding model and the LLM of your taste, via `LangChail.LLM`: [Ollama](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/Ollama), [OpenAI](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/openai/llms/langchain_openai.llms.base.OpenAI.html#langchain_openai.llms.base.OpenAI)...
{{< /callout >}}


{{< details title="It provides real and accurate information | Sample with gpt-4.1-nano 📌" closed="true" >}}

Based on the provided context, this repository is about creating a Streamlit Web App that allows users to chat with multiple large language models (LLMs) simultaneously, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, and Groq. 

The repository is called `Streamlit-MultiChat` and it features support for several LLMs, including:

- OpenAI (GPT 3.5, GPT4, GPT4o, GPT4o-mini)
- Anthropic (Claude 3, Claude 3.5)
- Ollama (Open Source Models)
- Groq API (LlaMa models using quick LPU inference)

The repository also includes documentation on how to get started, including:

- Cloning the repository and running the Streamlit Web App with API keys
- Exploring the project's features, such as SliDev presentations, ScrapeGraph, DaLLe, Streamlit Auth, and OpenAI as Custom Agents
- Deploying the project using Docker and Portainer

The repository is designed to be used with Python venvs, and it includes instructions on how to set up a venv, install dependencies, and run the Streamlit Web App.

To set up the project, you can follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat`
2. Create a new Python venv using `python3 -m venv multichat_venv` (for Linux) or `python -m venv multichat_venv` (for Windows)
3. Activate the venv using `source multichat_venv/bin/activate` (for Linux) or `multichat_venv\Scripts\activate` (for Windows)
4. Install the dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
5. Copy the API keys to the `.streamlit/secrets.toml` file
6. Run the Streamlit Web App using `streamlit run Z_multichat.py`

Alternatively, you can use the Docker image by running `docker pull ghcr.io/jalcocert/streamlit-multichat:latest` and then running the container using `docker run -p 8501:8501 ghcr.io/jalcocert/streamlit-multichat:latest

{{< /details >}}


The problem with this approach is that the context is limited to one file only, the `readme.md` and also subject that class changes on the repository website will require a class review for bs4 to work.

We are missing for example the technologies split of the project, which are at `content_area_class = "BorderGrid about-margin"`

Once embedded, it will reply with both context provided: [![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-scrap-repo-groq.py)

Whatever API you are using, remember that you can see the available models:

Once embedded, it will reply with both context provided: [![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat/blob/main/Z_Tests/Z_API_Models_check.ipynb)



4. https://github.com/langchain-ai/local-deep-researcher

> MIT | Fully local web research and report writing assistant 


5. Simply Cloning and using...[codex](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/vide-coding/#openai)?

In many of these projects you will see [UV as package manager](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/using-langchain-with-pandas-df/#uv)

Commit message:

testing local deep researcher project with duckduckgo

content/blog/selfhost-0525.md, after:

---
title: "SelfHosting Updates - Spring 2025"
date: 2025-05-04T01:20:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Dev"]
description: 'Selfhosted Apps that simplify my workflow as of May 2025: Termix, CheckMate'
url: 'selfhosted-apps-may-2025'
---

Ive been following closely the newsletter from: https://selfh.st/icons/

And these have taken my attention: 

1. https://github.com/karakeep-app/karakeep

> aGPL |  A self-hostable bookmark-everything app (links, notes and images) with AI-based automatic tagging and full text search 

A replacement for raindrop....

2. https://github.com/vijeeshr/quickretro

> MIT |  A real-time app for conducting a remote sprint retrospective meeting 

Having retrospective is really important when working Agile...

3. https://github.com/formsmd/formsmd

> Apache v2 |  Developer-first, open source Typeform alternative (formerly known as Blocks.md) 

An interesting alternative also to formbricks

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/selfhosting/" title="SelfHosting 101 Script to get containers, tailscale and more ready to go! 🐋 ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/blog/dev-forms/" title="Forms | Post ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

4. https://github.com/donaldzou/WGDashboard?ref=selfh.st

https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/
https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/how-to-use-wg-easy-with-a-vps/


5. https://github.com/Bubka/2FAuth?ref=selfh.st

As I recently had some trouble with my phone...


6. https://github.com/besoeasy/file-drop?ref=selfh.st


filebrowser alternative!

7. BYOD, I mean bring your own music https://github.com/swingmx/swingmusic?ref=selfh.st

8. https://github.com/tiagorangel1/cap?ref=selfh.st

>  Cap is a lightweight, modern open-source CAPTCHA alternative designed using SHA-256 proof-of-work 

9. Wordpres...but static sites? https://github.com/nityam2007/StaticPress-Docker?ref=selfh.st

## New SelfH Apps


### Termix

Termix, not termux, its being great:

* https://github.com/LukeGus/Termix
  * https://github.com/LukeGus/Termix/wiki/Docker

> MIT |  Clientless web-based SSH terminal emulator that stores and manages your connection details 

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s15a-ysSQE0 -->

{{< youtube "s15a-ysSQE0" >}}

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/termix-ui.png)

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/termix-user.png)

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/SelfH/Termix" title="Termix with Docker 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

```yml
services:
  termix:
    image: ghcr.io/lukegus/termix:latest
    container_name: termix
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "8090:8080"
    volumes:
      - termix-data:/app/data
    environment:
      # Generate random salt here https://www.lastpass.com/features/password-generator (max 32 characters, include all characters for settings)
      SALT: "something_generated"
      PORT: "8080"

volumes:
  termix-data:
    driver: local
```

You can use it to manage devices on the same local network:

```sh
#arp -a
arp -a | grep "192.168.1" #filtered to avoid containers
#ip neigh
#nmap -sP 192.168.1.1/24 | grep "scan"
```

But also the ones **via tailscale**, even if they are outside your home network:

```sh
sudo tailscale status | grep -v "offline"
```

You can measure the temp of a distant Pi:

```sh
vcgencmd measure_temp pmic
#docker system prune -a #or clean its unused container space
```

### CheckMate

https://github.com/bluewave-labs/checkmate
https://checkmate.so/


> agpl | Checkmate is an open-source, self-hosted tool designed to track and monitor server hardware, uptime, response times, and incidents in real-time with beautiful visualizations.





### Publiteme

* https://github.com/MikeMather/publite.me

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yAJvbF-m5FM




### Recap from Spring 2025

I was covering recently nextcloud...

![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/nextcloud-untrusteddomain.png)

and found out about OpenCloud:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ud9FEmNOgLs

https://github.com/opencloud-eu/opencloud

> Apache v2 | This is the main repository of the OpenCloud server. It contains the golang codebase for the backend services.


![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/dockerprune.png)

### I needed recently...


* https://speed.cloudflare.com/



![alt text](/blog_img/selfh/Internet/internet-test.png)

Speedtest CLI from Ookla®

![alt text](../../static/blog_img/selfh/Internet/SpeedTest.png)


{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/IoT/InternetQuality/InternetSpeedTracker.yaml" title="InternetSpeedTracker with Docker 🐋 ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

See that its running with:

```sh
curl 192.168.1.11:8065/api/healthcheck
```

{{< callout type="info" >}}
It has influxDB 2.0 integration, inc ase that you want to use this with Grafana. Also integrations with: tg, webhooks, gotify, ntfy,...
{{< /callout >}}


## Analytics Stuff

* https://github.com/chartbrew/chartbrew
* https://docs.chartbrew.com/deployment/run-on-docker#run-on-docker
* https://raw.githubusercontent.com/chartbrew/chartbrew/refs/heads/master/docker-compose.yml

>  Open-source web platform used to create live reporting dashboards from APIs, MongoDB, Firestore, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and more 📈📊 

Which resonates with my recent post: https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/setup-bi-tools-docker/

## Conclusions

Lately I got to know about couple of new VectorDBs:

* https://github.com/milvus-io/milvus

>  Milvus is a high-performance, cloud-native vector database built for scalable vector ANN search 

* https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector

>  Open-source vector similarity search for Postgres 

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/" title="Milvus and PgVector Docker Configs 🐋✅ ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

* https://github.com/hollowpnt92/docker-port-viewer?ref=selfh.st
https://github.com/hollowpnt92/docker-port-viewer/blob/main/docker-compose.yml

```sh
docker run -d --name docker-socket-proxy -e CONTAINERS=1 -e POST=0 -e PUT=0 -e DELETE=0 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock:ro tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy && docker run -d --name docker-port-viewer --link docker-socket-proxy -p 3003:80 hollowpnt/docker-port-viewer:latest
```

### Better WebAnalytics

Lately I tried littlyx, but I saw this cool post: https://jakubwolynko.eu/blog/202505-hosting-umami-on-vercel/

Also, https://github.com/Litlyx/litlyx which i discovered few months back


### Automated Projects Docs

Wouldnt it be great to have a project documentation automatically and AI generated?

<!-- 
https://git.exadel.com/exadel-ai-practice/accelerator/project-documentation-generator
 -->


* OpenAI API Keys - <https://platform.openai.com/api-keys>
* Anthropic - <https://console.anthropic.com/settings/keys>
* Groq - <https://console.groq.com/keys>
* For [Ollama](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/Ollama), you need [this setup](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-llms-ollama/)

1. RepoReader

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader" title="Repo Reader | Forked Project ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/scrap-and-chat-with-the-web/#conclusions" title="Web Scrapping | Post ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


```sh
git clone https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader

python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

pip install -r requirements.txt
source .env

python3 app.py
#An error occurred: The model `text-davinci-003` has been deprecated, learn more here: https://platform.openai.com/docs/deprecations
```

But...it used davinci model which was deprecated: https://platform.openai.com/docs/deprecations#instructgpt-models

So I had to vibe code a little bit with codex to fix it:

![alt text](/blog_img/GenAI/reporeader-qatrack.png)

But...I feel its already superseeded few times by other tools.

2. Scrapping with FireCrawl + OpenAI

I also tried with Firecrawl and OpenAI to give me some readme/ [sample posts](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Scrap_Tools/blob/main/FireCrawl/Z_Scrap_GHRepo/z_sample_post.md) about a given project:

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/RepoReader" title="Repo Reader | Forked Project ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Scrap_Tools/tree/main/FireCrawl/Z_Scrap_GHRep" title="Firecrawl Scrap GH Repo | Project Files ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


3. LangChain Web content embedd + ask:

In the meantime I discovered that it is also possible to [ask questions about a Web's content with LangChain](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/comparing-rag-and-use-cases/#web-scrapping), for example, [a repository's readme info](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/tree/main/LangChain/web):

```py
    ###Change these parameters and lets go###
    ollama_url = "http://192.168.1.5:11434"  # Replace with your Ollama server URL if different
    embedding_model = "all-minilm"
    llm_model = "llama3.2:1b"
    #user_question = "what it is this offer about?"
    user_question = "what it is this repository about?"
    #target_website = "https://justjoin.it/job-offer/link-group-product-manager-warszawa-ai"
    target_website = "https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat"
    #content_area_class = "MuiBox-root css-rcazos" # Use the same class as in the example
    content_area_class = "markdown-body entry-content container-lg"
```

![alt text](tic/blog_img/GenAI/langchain-repo-webask.png)

<!-- https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-web.ipynb
https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-repo-readme.ipynb
 -->

[![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-chroma-repo-readme.ipynb)


{{< callout type="info" >}}
It uses a [local ChromaDB](https://pypi.org/project/langchain-chroma/), Local embedding model and the LLM of your taste, via `LangChail.LLM`: [Ollama](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/AI_Gen/Ollama), [OpenAI](https://python.langchain.com/api_reference/openai/llms/langchain_openai.llms.base.OpenAI.html#langchain_openai.llms.base.OpenAI)...
{{< /callout >}}


{{< details title="It provides real and accurate information | Sample with gpt-4.1-nano 📌" closed="true" >}}

Based on the provided context, this repository is about creating a Streamlit Web App that allows users to chat with multiple large language models (LLMs) simultaneously, including OpenAI, Anthropic, Ollama, and Groq. 

The repository is called `Streamlit-MultiChat` and it features support for several LLMs, including:

- OpenAI (GPT 3.5, GPT4, GPT4o, GPT4o-mini)
- Anthropic (Claude 3, Claude 3.5)
- Ollama (Open Source Models)
- Groq API (LlaMa models using quick LPU inference)

The repository also includes documentation on how to get started, including:

- Cloning the repository and running the Streamlit Web App with API keys
- Exploring the project's features, such as SliDev presentations, ScrapeGraph, DaLLe, Streamlit Auth, and OpenAI as Custom Agents
- Deploying the project using Docker and Portainer

The repository is designed to be used with Python venvs, and it includes instructions on how to set up a venv, install dependencies, and run the Streamlit Web App.

To set up the project, you can follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository using `git clone https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat`
2. Create a new Python venv using `python3 -m venv multichat_venv` (for Linux) or `python -m venv multichat_venv` (for Windows)
3. Activate the venv using `source multichat_venv/bin/activate` (for Linux) or `multichat_venv\Scripts\activate` (for Windows)
4. Install the dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
5. Copy the API keys to the `.streamlit/secrets.toml` file
6. Run the Streamlit Web App using `streamlit run Z_multichat.py`

Alternatively, you can use the Docker image by running `docker pull ghcr.io/jalcocert/streamlit-multichat:latest` and then running the container using `docker run -p 8501:8501 ghcr.io/jalcocert/streamlit-multichat:latest

{{< /details >}}


The problem with this approach is that the context is limited to one file only, the `readme.md` and also subject that class changes on the repository website will require a class review for bs4 to work.

We are missing for example the technologies split of the project, which are at `content_area_class = "BorderGrid about-margin"`

Once embedded, it will reply with both context provided: [![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Data-Chat/blob/main/LangChain/web/langchain-scrap-repo-groq.py)

Whatever API you are using, remember that you can see the available models:

Once embedded, it will reply with both context provided: [![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Streamlit-MultiChat/blob/main/Z_Tests/Z_API_Models_check.ipynb)



4. https://github.com/langchain-ai/local-deep-researcher

![Optional alt text describing the image](https://private-user-images.githubusercontent.com/122662504/425216824-1c6b28f8-6b64-42ba-a491-1ab2875d50ea.png?jwt=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.kfz_F1RpWA1n4UtDrTnR5zdz2UCyNqKs7mAkOvA_Q-8)

> MIT | Fully local web research and report writing assistant 

```sh
git clone https://github.com/langchain-ai/local-deep-researcher

docker exec -it ollama sh
ollama pull deepseek-r1:8b

langgraph dev
```


{{< callout type="info" >}}
By default uses duckduckgo, with no API key required. You will need one for SearXNG, Tavily or Perplexity
{{< /callout >}}

5. Simply Cloning and using...[codex](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/vide-coding/#openai)?

In many of these projects you will see [UV as package manager](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/using-langchain-with-pandas-df/#uv)
