content/blog/tinkering_travel_setup.md, before:

---
title: "Technology Setup for a Trip"
date: 2025-02-11
draft: false
tags: ["AI", "Outro","Photo","PiGallery","Spliit vs Settle Up","Numbeo"]
description: "Software and Hardware setup before trips or vacations. Tech Travel Setup. With Cost of Living."
url: 'tech-for-a-trip'
---


**TL;DR** 

Tech for travel post!

**Intro**

Software and Hardware setup **before trips or vacations**.

Let see interesting tech for a trip.

Because you wont be carrying a lot of stuff: https://levels.io/carry-on-world-travel/

### Software Setup

If you are reading me for some time already: You know that I really enjoy [SelfHosted Apps](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/docs/selfhosting/).

{{< callout type="info" >}}
For easier setup, *specially for servers*, you can benefit of being familiar with [containers](#what-about-containers) 
{{< /callout >}}

> For content creation, you can have a look to **[ubuntu studio](https://ubuntustudio.org/)** with tools like gimp or digikam.

#### Communication

You can [setup a Matrix Server](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-matrix-synapse-docker/) and then install [Element as Chat app](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/privacy/android/#my-fav-android-apps)


{{< callout type="info" >}}
You can also try WA, Telegram or **Signal**, *depending where you want to go* 💻 
{{< /callout >}}

Some tech people prefer discord or slack to build communities though.

#### VPNs

A virtual private network so that you can access your homelab containers, without them being hit by bot queries.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Proper **[DNS](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#dns-what) Setup** is also a good travel companion 
{{< /callout >}}

##### Wireguard

You can call Wireguard the VPN client for PROS and not for "Pacos".

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/how-to-use-wg-easy-with-a-vps/" title="Wireguard (wg-easy) Server" image="/blog_img/hardware/wifi_eth.jpg" subtitle="VPS and Wiregaurd VPN" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

##### Tailscale

I really like the simplicity of tailscale (you just connect with google) and you get your laptops/smartphones to be connected in between.

**Without portforwarding** and complex configs.

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#tailscale" title="TailScale Setup ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/raspberry-pi-networking/" title="Wifi2Eth with Wireguard ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


{{< details title="Quick Tailscale Server Setup for Travelling 📌" closed="true" >}}

```sh
curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
# sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https &&
# curl -fsSL https://pkgs.tailscale.com/stable/raspbian/buster.gpg | sudo apt-key add - &&
# curl -fsSL https://pkgs.tailscale.com/stable/raspbian/buster.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tailscale.list &&
# sudo apt-get update &&
# sudo apt-get install tailscale &&
sudo tailscale up
tailscale ip -4 #get the ip 

#sudo tailscale logout
#sudo tailscale down
```

Make this device available as exit node:

```sh
echo 'net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf &&
echo 'net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf &&
sudo sysctl -p /etc/sysctl.conf &&
sudo tailscale down

sudo tailscale up --advertise-exit-node
```

This required a **final action on tailscale web UI**.

{{< /details >}}

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Which you can combine with [Mullvad](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#mullvad) 💻 
{{< /callout >}}

#### Trip Planner

This is one of the webapps that you can selfhost for your trips.

Well, better if you do so beforehand, because it will allow you to understand weather patters in your destination.

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/astro-web-setup/" title="Trip Planner Post" image="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/raw/main/images/trip-planner-main-graph.png" subtitle="Weather Trends with Python" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner" title="Go Pro Telemetry EDA" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="EDA Metadata Extraction at PyRouteTracker" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
  

You also have these:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-adventurelog/" title="How to Setup AdventureLog with Containers" >}}
  {{< card link="https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-airtrail/" title="Selfhosting AirTrail" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

You can also have a look to projects like: https://github.com/maxlerebourg/outpin and to [GPX Studio](#conclusions)

> Apache v2 |  OutPin offers a way to plan your future holidays by creating adventures and adding steps to them (with PocketBase/SQLite) 

Which are selfhostable as per this section of my Docker repo: https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/Others/Travel

{{< details title="Quick Trip Planner Deployment 📌" closed="true" >}}

See the [project deployment options](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/tree/main/Deploy).

You can try with python baremetal, but containers is my go to for stability.

{{< /details >}}


### Maps

You can install **Organic Maps** as [Android](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/#android-apps-i-love) app..

..but also on Linux:

```sh
flatpak install flathub app.organicmaps.desktop #https://flathub.org/apps/app.organicmaps.desktop
```

> Before Organic Maps, I was using maps.me, but it became so bloated lately.

To record your **routes as GPX**:

1. https://github.com/OpenTracksApp/OpenTracks

> OpenTracks is a sport tracking application that completely respects your privacy.

To visualize them later, you can use [GPX Studio](#conclusions)

2. https://github.com/jonasoreland/runnerup

> A open source run tracker

3. https://codeberg.org/jannis/FitoTrack

> FitoTrack - A privacy oriented fitness tracker for Android

And they can be combined with **FitTrackee**

* https://github.com/SamR1/FitTrackee

> AGPL 3.0 | Self-hosted **outdoor activity tracker** 🚴

4. https://github.com/IoTechCrafts/AdventureLog

>  Self-hostable travel tracker and trip planner. 

5. If you are using a [car](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/buying-car-data-analytics/)/camper, this might be helpful:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/#other-android-stuff" title="Android On Linux" image="/blog_img/Android/p4n.png" subtitle="Waydroid Setup" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

6. https://github.com/gpxstudio/gpx.studio

* see the app: https://gpx.studio/app#3.98/41.91/19.39

> MIT |  the online GPX file editor 

### BackUps

#### Nextcloud

If you will be recording at 4K, you will need **back up space**.

Here it comes **Nextcloud as a backup solution**, as it has clients for desktop/web/android/ios.

> I also like Syncthing but, *if you care*,  it does not have ios app

Get one of these connected to your SBCs at home and you are ready:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/cloud-vs-single-board-computers/" title="Crucial SSD for a Pi" image="/blog_img/hardware/crucial-1tb-ssd.jpg" subtitle="Ready to Plug to MiniPC or SBC" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

<!-- 
![Crucial ssd](/blog_img/hardware/crucial-1tb-ssd.jpg)
 -->

Remember that Nextcloud is a full fledged selfhosted cloud.

{{< details title="Quick NextCloud Server Container Deployment 📌" closed="true" >}}

NC together with [MariaDB Compose](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/Backups/NextCloud/nc_mariadb.yml)

```yml
#version: '2'

# volumes:
#   nextcloud:
#   db:

services:
  nextclouddb:
    image: linuxserver/mariadb:10.11.8
    restart: always
    container_name: nextclouddb
    volumes:
      - /home/Docker/nextcloud/db:/var/lib/mysql
    environment:
      - MYSQL_INITDB_SKIP_TZINFO=1
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=rootpass
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=ncpass
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=nextcloud
#    networks: ["nginx_nginx_network"] #optional 

  nextcloudapp:
    image: nextcloud:30.0.0 #latest
    container_name: nextcloud
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 8035:80
    links:
      - nextclouddb
    volumes:
      - /home/Docker/nextcloud/html:/var/www/html
    environment:
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=ncpass
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_HOST=db
      - NEXTCLOUD_TRUSTED_DOMAINS= http://orangepi5.blablabla.ts.net:8035 #http://0.0.0.0:8050 #https://nextcloud.yourduckdnsubdomain.duckdns.org/
#    networks: ["nginx_nginx_network"] #optional 
 
# networks: #optional
#   nginx_nginx_network: #optional
#     external: true #optional
```
{{< /details >}}

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Setup [Nextcloud as Docker container](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/Backups/NextCloud) 
{{< /callout >}}

#### Other Image Center Backups

1. Lychee
2. Piwigo
3. [Photoview](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-Photoview-docker/)
4. Ente, PhotoPrism, Immich...
5. And...**PiGallery2**: which provides the following cool web UI!

![PiGallery2 Map Zoom](/blog_img/selfh/Photo/PiGallery2-MapZoom.png)

> ...You can see These tools covered at [this photo management tools post](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/photo-management-tools)

### Hardware Setup

A [travel router](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/), an [action cam](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-oa5pro-firmware-updates/) and a kindle.

> What else would you need?

![Travel pack](/blog_img/hardware/travel-pakc.jpg)

Remember that a [VPS Setup](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/cloud/#other-clouds) or [some SBCs](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/cloud-vs-single-board-computers/) at home would be good companions.

![Single Board Computers vs Thinkpad x13](/blog_img/hardware/sbcs-x13.jpg)

To bring with you, a [compact laptop](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/laptop-lenovo-thinkpad-x13-benchmark/) can also be interesting.

> This one is **~1.2kg**, a tablet can be ~500g

You can also take a **4G LTE Wingle**, like the OLAX:

![4g-OLAX-Portable-Router](/blog_img/mini_pc/4g-router.png)



#### Action Cam

If you like to tinker with video and collect virtual memories, you might brign with you an action cam.

Recently ive been bringing the OA5Pro and im still figuring out how to make better videos tbh:

<!--
![DJI Osmo Action 5 Pro](/blog_img/hardware/dji_oa5pro.jpg) 
-->

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-osmo-action-5-pro/" title="About DJi Oa5 Pro" image="/blog_img/hardware/dji_oa5pro.jpg" subtitle="Learning more about this action camera" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/asrock-x300-home-server/#video-editing-101/" title="Video Workflow" image="/blog_img/hardware/x300.jpg" subtitle="With the Asrock x300" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Some people bring their drons.

But [my DJI Tello dron](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-tello-python-programming/) is more a 101 tool to get started with dron flying while doing some Python test on it.

> [I saw some people mounting](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/myz4ujPcQ10) **action cameras on their drons** with some adjustments.



#### SmartPhone

I am very happy with the [**Android** Pixel 8 Pro](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/)

> Maybe some backup?

#### Router

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/tplink-archer-mr200-router-review/" title="TPLink MR200" image="/blog_img/hardware/TPLink4G-OpenSpeedTest.png" subtitle="4G Home Router Review" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/" title="Travel Router Setup" image="/blog_img/hardware/GL-MT3000-pwd.png" subtitle="GL-MT3000 review and VPN Setup" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


You can also get one of these **portable 4G usb router** (and bring a **sim adapter**):

![4g router](/blog_img/hardware/portable-4g-router.jpg)

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
**Not all esims** on your phone allow you to use them as Hotspot 
{{< /callout >}}

See: https://www.simyo.es/preguntas-frecuentes/esim.html or airalo


> Ive been experimenting with the travel router around and...

If you need to **login to a hotel network**, where credentials (**user/pass**) are required, this will prompt:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/" title="TailScale Setup with the MT3000" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Can’t access the internet via the repeated hotspot. Try to enter **Login Mode for Public Hotspots** to fix the issue. Note this mode **will pause VPNs and custom DNS** until it leave, which may cause data leaks to the provider of the hotspot (e.g., hotel/mall). 
{{< /callout >}}

![Wifi Login UI on MT3000](/blog_img/hardware/travel-router-loginwifi.png)

---

## Conclusions

Done travelling?

On the other side of the coin you have mortages and jobs waiting for you:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/python-real-estate-mortage-calculator/" title="RE Calculator - Post"  >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/when-to-apply-for-a-job/" title="Job Offers and CV Creation" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


After travelling and *hopefully learning new perspectives*, you can [create a website](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/create-your-website/) to tell your story.

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://cyclingthere.pages.dev/" title="My Story" image="https://cyclingthere.pages.dev/_astro/PXL_20241008_144149173.Cj1pqXWc_1oH9Mo.webp" subtitle="Stories with a MTB that I shared into a SSG website" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

You can also have a look to: https://github.com/gpxstudio/gpx.studio 

> MIT | the online GPX file editor 

And to https://github.com/JAlcocerT/pigallery2 because is so cool that displayes your photos and their GPX metadata

The gallery also render the GPX files!

> it's very simple to [setup 🐳](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/Backups/Photos/PiGallery_docker-compose.yml)


**Bonus**

1. [Movemouse](https://github.com/sw3103/movemouse?ref=fossengineer.com) - *Because I know you are workationing*

> GPL 3.0 |  Move Mouse is a simple piece of software that is designed to simulate user activity. 

2. https://github.com/CHerSun/NoSleep

### Cost of Living

Sometime ago I got to know this site: https://www.numbeo.com

A pure reflection of the **knowledge of crowds**, applied for cost of living.

* https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Warsaw
* https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Amsterdam

> At the time of writing, these are separeted by x1.4 without rent (and ~x2 with rent)

If you are [planning a trip](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/tree/main) and want to make a guess on the costs, its worth to have a look!

> > Wouldnt it be great to have an app that combines all of that? :)

---

## FAQ

### Sharing Expenses with Spliit

If you are not aware of **Spliit** for sharing expenses with others: *its kind of a `https://settleup.app/`, but OSS*

* https://github.com/spliit-app/spliit

> MIT | Spliit is a free and **open-source alternative to Splitwise**, aimed at simplifying expense sharing among friends and family.


{{< details title="Spliit | Travel expenses 📌" closed="true" >}}

It addresses the need for a user-friendly platform to manage shared expenses without the hassle of ads or fees.

**Key Features**:

- Create and share groups for expense tracking.
- Add detailed expenses with descriptions.
- Display balances within groups.
- Create reimbursement expenses.
- Progressive Web App (PWA) functionality.
- Option to split expenses unevenly.
- Ability to upload images and scan receipts for expenses.
- Future features may include recurring expenses and import from Splitwise.

Technology Stack:

1. **Next.js** for web application framework.
2. **TailwindCSS** for styling.
3. **Prisma** for database access.
4. **Vercel** for hosting.

Local Development:

- Clone the repository and set up a local PostgreSQL server.
- Follow setup instructions to run the application locally or in a Docker container.

{{< /details >}}

Spliit offers a robust solution for managing shared expenses and simplifies the process for users. 

> Spliit an fantastic project to have a look to.

In my opinion its *just missing* the possibility to add different currencies.

The good thing?

You can get a [`.json` report to analyze](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/guide-python-PySpark/#faq) later what has been going during the trip.

[![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/Z_TestingLanguages/Z_Python/spliit_analyzer.ipynb)

{{< callout type="info" >}}
A sample `ipynb` nb is waiting for you [here](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/Z_TestingLanguages/Z_Python/spliit_analyzer.ipynb) 
{{< /callout >}}

Alternatively, you can use [DollarDollar](https://github.com/harung1993/dollardollar?ref=selfh.st) with multicurrency expenses support!

### What about containers?

[Containers](https://fossengineer.com/understanding-containers-for-selfhosting/) are great for SelfHosting.

And you can see how simple is to get [up and running with **docker and Portainer**](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/selfhosting/):

{{< youtube "ox3IsWH-o7g" >}}

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/shorts/ox3IsWH-o7g -->

No wonder [why **Containers**](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/why-i-love-containers/) are one of my favourite technologies to use for app reliability!

### More Cool Software

Thanks to this sites, I get to know more cool apps:

1. https://openalternative.co/self-hosted

* https://github.com/piotrkulpinski/openalternative

> Which can be seen also as an **awsome Astro [project](https://github.com/piotrkulpinski/openalternative)!**

2. https://alternateoss.com/

3. https://youmightnotneed.co/

Commit message:

adding fb auth with nextjs

content/blog/tinkering_travel_setup.md, after:

---
title: "Technology Setup for a Trip"
date: 2025-02-11
draft: false
tags: ["AI", "Outro","Photo","PiGallery","Spliit vs Settle Up","Numbeo"]
description: "Software and Hardware setup before trips or vacations. Tech Travel Setup. With Cost of Living."
url: 'tech-for-a-trip'
---


**TL;DR** 

Tech for travel post!

**Intro**

Software and Hardware setup **before trips or vacations**.

Let see interesting tech for a trip.

Because you wont be carrying a lot of stuff: https://levels.io/carry-on-world-travel/

### Software Setup

If you are reading me for some time already: You know that I really enjoy [SelfHosted Apps](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/docs/selfhosting/).

{{< callout type="info" >}}
For easier setup, *specially for servers*, you can benefit of being familiar with [containers](#what-about-containers) 
{{< /callout >}}

> For content creation, you can have a look to **[ubuntu studio](https://ubuntustudio.org/)** with tools like gimp or digikam.

#### Communication

You can [setup a Matrix Server](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-matrix-synapse-docker/) and then install [Element as Chat app](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/privacy/android/#my-fav-android-apps)


{{< callout type="info" >}}
You can also try WA, Telegram or **Signal**, *depending where you want to go* 💻 
{{< /callout >}}

Some tech people prefer discord or slack to build communities though.

#### VPNs

A virtual private network so that you can access your homelab containers, without them being hit by bot queries.

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Proper **[DNS](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#dns-what) Setup** is also a good travel companion 
{{< /callout >}}

##### Wireguard

You can call Wireguard the VPN client for PROS and not for "Pacos".

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/how-to-use-wg-easy-with-a-vps/" title="Wireguard (wg-easy) Server" image="/blog_img/hardware/wifi_eth.jpg" subtitle="VPS and Wiregaurd VPN" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

##### Tailscale

I really like the simplicity of tailscale (you just connect with google) and you get your laptops/smartphones to be connected in between.

**Without portforwarding** and complex configs.

{{< cards cols="2" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#tailscale" title="TailScale Setup ↗" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/raspberry-pi-networking/" title="Wifi2Eth with Wireguard ↗" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


{{< details title="Quick Tailscale Server Setup for Travelling 📌" closed="true" >}}

```sh
curl -fsSL https://tailscale.com/install.sh | sh
# sudo apt-get install apt-transport-https &&
# curl -fsSL https://pkgs.tailscale.com/stable/raspbian/buster.gpg | sudo apt-key add - &&
# curl -fsSL https://pkgs.tailscale.com/stable/raspbian/buster.list | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/tailscale.list &&
# sudo apt-get update &&
# sudo apt-get install tailscale &&
sudo tailscale up
tailscale ip -4 #get the ip 

#sudo tailscale logout
#sudo tailscale down
```

Make this device available as exit node:

```sh
echo 'net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf &&
echo 'net.ipv6.conf.all.forwarding = 1' | sudo tee -a /etc/sysctl.conf &&
sudo sysctl -p /etc/sysctl.conf &&
sudo tailscale down

sudo tailscale up --advertise-exit-node
```

This required a **final action on tailscale web UI**.

{{< /details >}}

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Which you can combine with [Mullvad](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/debian/linux_vpn_setup/#mullvad) 💻 
{{< /callout >}}

#### Trip Planner

This is one of the webapps that you can selfhost for your trips.

Well, better if you do so beforehand, because it will allow you to understand weather patters in your destination.

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/astro-web-setup/" title="Trip Planner Post" image="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/raw/main/images/trip-planner-main-graph.png" subtitle="Weather Trends with Python" >}}
  {{< card link="https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner" title="Go Pro Telemetry EDA" image="/blog_img/apps/gh-jalcocert.svg" subtitle="EDA Metadata Extraction at PyRouteTracker" >}}
{{< /cards >}}
  

You also have these:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-adventurelog/" title="How to Setup AdventureLog with Containers" >}}
  {{< card link="https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-airtrail/" title="Selfhosting AirTrail" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

You can also have a look to projects like: https://github.com/maxlerebourg/outpin and to [GPX Studio](#conclusions)

> Apache v2 |  OutPin offers a way to plan your future holidays by creating adventures and adding steps to them (with PocketBase/SQLite) 

Which are selfhostable as per this section of my Docker repo: https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/Others/Travel

{{< details title="Quick Trip Planner Deployment 📌" closed="true" >}}

See the [project deployment options](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/tree/main/Deploy).

You can try with python baremetal, but containers is my go to for stability.

{{< /details >}}


### Maps

You can install **Organic Maps** as [Android](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/#android-apps-i-love) app..

..but also on Linux:

```sh
flatpak install flathub app.organicmaps.desktop #https://flathub.org/apps/app.organicmaps.desktop
```

> Before Organic Maps, I was using maps.me, but it became so bloated lately.

To record your **routes as GPX**:

1. https://github.com/OpenTracksApp/OpenTracks

> OpenTracks is a sport tracking application that completely respects your privacy.

To visualize them later, you can use [GPX Studio](#conclusions)

2. https://github.com/jonasoreland/runnerup

> A open source run tracker

3. https://codeberg.org/jannis/FitoTrack

> FitoTrack - A privacy oriented fitness tracker for Android

And they can be combined with **FitTrackee**

* https://github.com/SamR1/FitTrackee

> AGPL 3.0 | Self-hosted **outdoor activity tracker** 🚴

4. https://github.com/IoTechCrafts/AdventureLog

>  Self-hostable travel tracker and trip planner. 

5. If you are using a [car](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/buying-car-data-analytics/)/camper, this might be helpful:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/#other-android-stuff" title="Android On Linux" image="/blog_img/Android/p4n.png" subtitle="Waydroid Setup" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

6. https://github.com/gpxstudio/gpx.studio

* see the app: https://gpx.studio/app#3.98/41.91/19.39

> MIT |  the online GPX file editor 

### BackUps

#### Nextcloud

If you will be recording at 4K, you will need **back up space**.

Here it comes **Nextcloud as a backup solution**, as it has clients for desktop/web/android/ios.

> I also like Syncthing but, *if you care*,  it does not have ios app

Get one of these connected to your SBCs at home and you are ready:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/cloud-vs-single-board-computers/" title="Crucial SSD for a Pi" image="/blog_img/hardware/crucial-1tb-ssd.jpg" subtitle="Ready to Plug to MiniPC or SBC" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

<!-- 
![Crucial ssd](/blog_img/hardware/crucial-1tb-ssd.jpg)
 -->

Remember that Nextcloud is a full fledged selfhosted cloud.

{{< details title="Quick NextCloud Server Container Deployment 📌" closed="true" >}}

NC together with [MariaDB Compose](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/Backups/NextCloud/nc_mariadb.yml)

```yml
#version: '2'

# volumes:
#   nextcloud:
#   db:

services:
  nextclouddb:
    image: linuxserver/mariadb:10.11.8
    restart: always
    container_name: nextclouddb
    volumes:
      - /home/Docker/nextcloud/db:/var/lib/mysql
    environment:
      - MYSQL_INITDB_SKIP_TZINFO=1
      - MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=rootpass
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=ncpass
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=nextcloud
#    networks: ["nginx_nginx_network"] #optional 

  nextcloudapp:
    image: nextcloud:30.0.0 #latest
    container_name: nextcloud
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 8035:80
    links:
      - nextclouddb
    volumes:
      - /home/Docker/nextcloud/html:/var/www/html
    environment:
      - MYSQL_PASSWORD=ncpass
      - MYSQL_DATABASE=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_USER=nextcloud
      - MYSQL_HOST=db
      - NEXTCLOUD_TRUSTED_DOMAINS= http://orangepi5.blablabla.ts.net:8035 #http://0.0.0.0:8050 #https://nextcloud.yourduckdnsubdomain.duckdns.org/
#    networks: ["nginx_nginx_network"] #optional 
 
# networks: #optional
#   nginx_nginx_network: #optional
#     external: true #optional
```
{{< /details >}}

{{< callout type="info" >}}
Setup [Nextcloud as Docker container](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/tree/main/Backups/NextCloud) 
{{< /callout >}}

#### Other Image Center Backups

1. Lychee
2. Piwigo
3. [Photoview](https://fossengineer.com/selfhosting-Photoview-docker/)
4. Ente, PhotoPrism, Immich...
5. And...**PiGallery2**: which provides the following cool web UI!

![PiGallery2 Map Zoom](/blog_img/selfh/Photo/PiGallery2-MapZoom.png)

> ...You can see These tools covered at [this photo management tools post](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/photo-management-tools)

### Hardware Setup

A [travel router](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/), an [action cam](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-oa5pro-firmware-updates/) and a kindle with `.epub `books already loaded.

> What else would you need?

![Travel pack](/blog_img/hardware/travel-pakc.jpg)

Remember that a [VPS Setup](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/cloud/#other-clouds) or [some SBCs](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/cloud-vs-single-board-computers/) at home would be good companions.

![Single Board Computers vs Thinkpad x13](/blog_img/hardware/sbcs-x13.jpg)

To bring with you, a [compact laptop](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/laptop-lenovo-thinkpad-x13-benchmark/) can also be interesting.

> This one is **~1.2kg**, a tablet can be ~500g

You can also take a **4G LTE Wingle**, like the OLAX:

![4g-OLAX-Portable-Router](/blog_img/mini_pc/4g-router.png)



#### Action Cam

If you like to tinker with video and collect virtual memories, you might brign with you an action cam.

Recently ive been bringing the OA5Pro and im still figuring out how to make better videos tbh:

<!--
![DJI Osmo Action 5 Pro](/blog_img/hardware/dji_oa5pro.jpg) 
-->

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-osmo-action-5-pro/" title="About DJi Oa5 Pro" image="/blog_img/hardware/dji_oa5pro.jpg" subtitle="Learning more about this action camera" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/asrock-x300-home-server/#video-editing-101/" title="Video Workflow" image="/blog_img/hardware/x300.jpg" subtitle="With the Asrock x300" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

Some people bring their drons.

But [my DJI Tello dron](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/dji-tello-python-programming/) is more a 101 tool to get started with dron flying while doing some Python test on it.

> [I saw some people mounting](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/myz4ujPcQ10) **action cameras on their drons** with some adjustments.



#### SmartPhone

I am very happy with the [**Android** Pixel 8 Pro](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/pixel-8-pro-tricks/)

> Maybe some backup?

#### Router

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/tplink-archer-mr200-router-review/" title="TPLink MR200" image="/blog_img/hardware/TPLink4G-OpenSpeedTest.png" subtitle="4G Home Router Review" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/" title="Travel Router Setup" image="/blog_img/hardware/GL-MT3000-pwd.png" subtitle="GL-MT3000 review and VPN Setup" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


You can also get one of these **portable 4G usb router** (and bring a **sim adapter**):

![4g router](/blog_img/hardware/portable-4g-router.jpg)

{{< callout type="warning" >}}
**Not all esims** on your phone allow you to use them as Hotspot 
{{< /callout >}}

See: https://www.simyo.es/preguntas-frecuentes/esim.html or airalo


> Ive been experimenting with the travel router around and...

If you need to **login to a hotel network**, where credentials (**user/pass**) are required, this will prompt:

{{< cards cols="1" >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/travel-router-gl-mt3000-review/" title="TailScale Setup with the MT3000" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


{{< callout type="warning" >}}
Can’t access the internet via the repeated hotspot. Try to enter **Login Mode for Public Hotspots** to fix the issue. Note this mode **will pause VPNs and custom DNS** until it leave, which may cause data leaks to the provider of the hotspot (e.g., hotel/mall). 
{{< /callout >}}

![Wifi Login UI on MT3000](/blog_img/hardware/travel-router-loginwifi.png)

---

## Conclusions

Done travelling?

On the other side of the coin you have mortages and jobs waiting for you:

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/python-real-estate-mortage-calculator/" title="RE Calculator - Post"  >}}
  {{< card link="https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/when-to-apply-for-a-job/" title="Job Offers and CV Creation" >}}
{{< /cards >}}


After travelling and *hopefully learning new perspectives*, you can [create a website](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/create-your-website/) to tell your story.

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://cyclingthere.pages.dev/" title="My Story" image="https://cyclingthere.pages.dev/_astro/PXL_20241008_144149173.Cj1pqXWc_1oH9Mo.webp" subtitle="Stories with a MTB that I shared into a SSG website" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

You can also have a look to: https://github.com/gpxstudio/gpx.studio 

> MIT | the online GPX file editor 

And to https://github.com/JAlcocerT/pigallery2 because is so cool that displayes your photos and their GPX metadata

The gallery also render the GPX files!

> it's very simple to [setup 🐳](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Docker/blob/main/Backups/Photos/PiGallery_docker-compose.yml)


**Bonus**

1. [Movemouse](https://github.com/sw3103/movemouse?ref=fossengineer.com) - *Because I know you are workationing*

> GPL 3.0 |  Move Mouse is a simple piece of software that is designed to simulate user activity. 

2. https://github.com/CHerSun/NoSleep

### Cost of Living

Sometime ago I got to know this site: https://www.numbeo.com

A pure reflection of the **knowledge of crowds**, applied for cost of living.

* https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Warsaw
* https://www.numbeo.com/cost-of-living/in/Amsterdam

> At the time of writing, these are separeted by x1.4 without rent (and ~x2 with rent)

If you are [planning a trip](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/Py_Trip_Planner/tree/main) and want to make a guess on the costs, its worth to have a look!

> > Wouldnt it be great to have an app that combines all of that? :)

---

## FAQ

### Sharing Expenses with Spliit

If you are not aware of **Spliit** for sharing expenses with others: *its kind of a `https://settleup.app/`, but OSS*

* https://github.com/spliit-app/spliit

> MIT | Spliit is a free and **open-source alternative to Splitwise**, aimed at simplifying expense sharing among friends and family.


{{< details title="Spliit | Travel expenses 📌" closed="true" >}}

It addresses the need for a user-friendly platform to manage shared expenses without the hassle of ads or fees.

**Key Features**:

- Create and share groups for expense tracking.
- Add detailed expenses with descriptions.
- Display balances within groups.
- Create reimbursement expenses.
- Progressive Web App (PWA) functionality.
- Option to split expenses unevenly.
- Ability to upload images and scan receipts for expenses.
- Future features may include recurring expenses and import from Splitwise.

Technology Stack:

1. **Next.js** for web application framework.
2. **TailwindCSS** for styling.
3. **Prisma** for database access.
4. **Vercel** for hosting.

Local Development:

- Clone the repository and set up a local PostgreSQL server.
- Follow setup instructions to run the application locally or in a Docker container.

{{< /details >}}

Spliit offers a robust solution for managing shared expenses and simplifies the process for users. 

> Spliit an fantastic project to have a look to.

In my opinion its *just missing* the possibility to add different currencies.

The good thing?

You can get a [`.json` report to analyze](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/guide-python-PySpark/#faq) later what has been going during the trip.

[![Open in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/assets/colab-badge.svg)](https://colab.research.google.com/github/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/Z_TestingLanguages/Z_Python/spliit_analyzer.ipynb)

{{< callout type="info" >}}
A sample `ipynb` nb is waiting for you [here](https://github.com/JAlcocerT/JAlcocerT/blob/main/Z_TestingLanguages/Z_Python/spliit_analyzer.ipynb) 
{{< /callout >}}

Alternatively, you can use [DollarDollar](https://github.com/harung1993/dollardollar?ref=selfh.st) with multicurrency expenses support!

### What about containers?

[Containers](https://fossengineer.com/understanding-containers-for-selfhosting/) are great for SelfHosting.

And you can see how simple is to get [up and running with **docker and Portainer**](https://jalcocert.github.io/Linux/docs/linux__cloud/selfhosting/):

{{< youtube "ox3IsWH-o7g" >}}

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/shorts/ox3IsWH-o7g -->

No wonder [why **Containers**](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/why-i-love-containers/) are one of my favourite technologies to use for app reliability!

### More Cool Software

Thanks to this sites, I get to know more cool apps:

1. https://openalternative.co/self-hosted

* https://github.com/piotrkulpinski/openalternative

> Which can be seen also as an **awsome Astro [project](https://github.com/piotrkulpinski/openalternative)!**

2. https://alternateoss.com/

3. https://youmightnotneed.co/
