content/blog/z-idea-2-execution-dao.md, before:

---
title: "Are agents and DAOs the inevitable future?"
date: 2026-02-28T08:00:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Crypto","LLMs","Gresham"]
description: 'The AI Driven Business x Unit Economics 107'
url: 'ideas-to-execution-with-dao'
math: true
---

**TL;DR**

Is this what future will look like?

* https://app.fireflies.ai/perks
* Perplexity and commet (from W11 only on the desktop) 

**Intro**

Imagine whats next when LLMs/Agents can go from general ideas to epic/tasks

And from tasks to solutions.

Yes, they also understand about business games and what profit is:

follows the *full stack business formula* from top line, to net profit:

$$
P \times V \times GM \times OM \times IF \times T
$$

## What is desirable?

How will agents know what to do?

Or better: How will they know what other agents might find useful?

Pure randomness?

Or...Information?

If so: Which information?

Many people dont agree that Prices are amazing signals that consolidate huge data points.

I doubt that agents would skip the power of Prices.


So, whats stopping them from: *Data -> Decision -> Delivery* ?


### Price = Data

How could this be different?

Well, it can be whenever we try to *fix reality*.

But code does not like to be twisted.

Or if it is, there is [a trace of what happened](#for-crypto-bros).


### Agentic Stories

Who could have guessed that models with 1M context tokens are already exceeding most BA's.

Specially those who dont take notes, or if anything, write a comment in teams chat while taking requirements.

![Meme - Fantastic](/blog_img/memes/bertin-osborne-incredible.gif)


### Agentic SDLC

Generating UIs is a joke already.

And Gemini 3.1 takes it to the next level.

Will this stop been a joke? 

No. In fact...

* https://www.pencil.dev/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/comments/1q403xw/claude_code_for_noncoding_projectswork_a_complete/
* https://polymarket.com/event/which-company-has-the-best-ai-model-end-of-february

```sh
#https://5ykymftd1soethh5.public.blob.vercel-storage.com/Pencil-linux-x86_64.AppImage
wget -P ~/Applications https://5ykymftd1soethh5.public.blob.vercel-storage.com/Pencil-linux-x86_64.AppImage #thanks to appimage launcher

npm i -g @openai/codex
codex

#wget https://github.com/Cuperino/QPrompt-Teleprompter/releases/download/v1.1.6/qprompt-v1.1.6-51788eb-linux-gcc-x86_64.AppImage
```


| Feature | **Claude Code** | **Gemini CLI** | **Codex CLI** | **OpenCode CLI** | **Kiro CLI** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Model Focus** | Claude 3.5/4.0 | Gemini 1.5/2.0 | GPT-4o / GPT-5 | **Model Agnostic** | Proprietary Agents |
| **Best For** | High-quality logic | Large codebases | Rapid feature dev | Privacy/Flexibility | Complex Workflows |
| **Key Strength** | 95% "first-try" accuracy | 1M+ context window | CI/CD & GitHub | Local/Custom models | Multi-agent pipelines |
| **Pricing** | $20/mo (Claude Pro) | Generous Free Tier | OpenAI Subscription | Free (BYO API Key) | Paid/Enterprise |
| **Context File** | `CLAUDE.md` | `GEMINI.md` | `AGENTS.md` | Configurable | `steering.kiro` |

> Are websites development [skills a commodity](#for-vibe-coders) already?

> > Its clear that your clients money is a commodity, but...so seems to be web dev and in general any ~~digital tech~~ skill



### Agentic Delivery

Are we ready for destruction creative?

It doesnt matter.


#### Crypto and DAO

Few years ago I got to know about ENS where you could buy forever a domain.

One of such domains were .dao which is decentralized autonomous organization.

This gets crazy when we put together all previous points.

---

## Conclusions

Are we moving forward to such future?

With digital employees / co-workers or even...pure digital agent driven companies?

I just can say that at this point of interacting for few years with LLMs **I have more questions than answers**.

Some part because im stepping back and reviewing concepts like: whats basic? whats a cool website? whats learning?

But as I see it: these questions are having higher quality.

Or at least: im more aware of my hypothesis and blinds spots / converging logics

> After all...those ,failed' vibe coded PoCs were just a miss from my initial ask and clarifications


### Services

If you haven't realized yet: there is no passive income, just active *and deferred active is just active*

One of the ways You can scale your active income with knowledge: *pay with money, or with time, depending which you value the least* #Gresham

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://consulting.jalcocertech.com" title="Consulting Services" image="/blog_img/entrepre/tiersofservice/dwi/selfh-landing-astro-fastapi-bot.png" subtitle="Consulting - Tier of Service" >}}
  {{< card link="https://ebooks.jalcocertech.com" title="DIY via ebooks" image="/blog_img/shipping/dna-1ton-ebook.png" subtitle="Distilled knowledge via web/ooks to enable you to create" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

---

## FAQ

The context to move forward comes from:

* Questions
* The reply *based on ,mental' models* that we (or agents) give to them


### For crypto bros

This is how some explain Prices: https://data.bitcoinity.org/markets/books/USD

The so called the order books: an ever evolving match between buyers and sellers

* https://blockdyor.com/why-running-a-lightning-node/
* https://github.com/besoeasy/yantr - It should remind you to UmbrelOS

> YANTR is a cross-platform Docker App Store that makes server-grade self-hosting easy and flexible. It gives you ready-to-run apps — from Bitcoin nodes to file converters and privacy tools — all in lightweight Docker containers.

* https://dune.com/home
* https://defillama.com/yields?project=Aave%20V3
* https://aavescan.com/ethereum-v3/usdc

![Aave v3 lending ETH and USDT](/blog_img/crypto/defi/aave-eth-and-usdt.png)


There are people who try to build **models** to explain reality

* [Power Law](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/powerlaw-and-series-with-python/) based: `https://timetobuybitcoin.com/`
* https://forocoches.com/foro/showthread.php?t=10597594
* https://x.com/0xAralez/status/2020233840258945291


Not sure if the order of the things is right though


### For Vibe Coders

People have a different BRD/PRD/FRD approach, that just works:

```sh
#sudo apt install gh
gh auth login
#gh repo create btc-powerlaw --private --source=. --remote=origin --push
    
git init && git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit: simple btc-powerlaw" && gh repo create btc-powerlaw --private --source=. --remote=origin --push
codex
#/resume
```

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czLrUyA_Bh4 -->

{{< youtube "czLrUyA_Bh4" >}}


One shot web UIs with `GEMINI.md`

```md
# Cinematic Landing Page Builder

## Role

Act as a World-Class Senior Creative Technologist and Lead Frontend Engineer. You build high-fidelity, cinematic "1:1 Pixel Perfect" landing pages. Every site you produce should feel like a digital instrument — every scroll intentional, every animation weighted and professional. Eradicate all generic AI patterns.

## Agent Flow — MUST FOLLOW

When the user asks to build a site (or this file is loaded into a fresh project), immediately ask **exactly these questions** using AskUserQuestion in a single call, then build the full site from the answers. Do not ask follow-ups. Do not over-discuss. Build.

### Questions (all in one AskUserQuestion call)

1. **"What's the brand name and one-line purpose?"** — Free text. Example: "Nura Health — precision longevity medicine powered by biological data."
2. **"Pick an aesthetic direction"** — Single-select from the presets below. Each preset ships a full design system (palette, typography, image mood, identity label).
3. **"What are your 3 key value propositions?"** — Free text. Brief phrases. These become the Features section cards.
4. **"What should visitors do?"** — Free text. The primary CTA. Example: "Join the waitlist", "Book a consultation", "Start free trial".

---

## Aesthetic Presets

Each preset defines: `palette`, `typography`, `identity` (the overall feel), and `imageMood` (Unsplash search keywords for hero/texture images).

### Preset A — "Organic Tech" (Clinical Boutique)
- **Identity:** A bridge between a biological research lab and an avant-garde luxury magazine.
- **Palette:** Moss `#2E4036` (Primary), Clay `#CC5833` (Accent), Cream `#F2F0E9` (Background), Charcoal `#1A1A1A` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Plus Jakarta Sans" + "Outfit" (tight tracking). Drama: "Cormorant Garamond" Italic. Data: `"IBM Plex Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** dark forest, organic textures, moss, ferns, laboratory glassware.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Concept noun] is the" (Bold Sans) / "[Power word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset B — "Midnight Luxe" (Dark Editorial)
- **Identity:** A private members' club meets a high-end watchmaker's atelier.
- **Palette:** Obsidian `#0D0D12` (Primary), Champagne `#C9A84C` (Accent), Ivory `#FAF8F5` (Background), Slate `#2A2A35` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Inter" (tight tracking). Drama: "Playfair Display" Italic. Data: `"JetBrains Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** dark marble, gold accents, architectural shadows, luxury interiors.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Aspirational noun] meets" (Bold Sans) / "[Precision word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset C — "Brutalist Signal" (Raw Precision)
- **Identity:** A control room for the future — no decoration, pure information density.
- **Palette:** Paper `#E8E4DD` (Primary), Signal Red `#E63B2E` (Accent), Off-white `#F5F3EE` (Background), Black `#111111` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Space Grotesk" (tight tracking). Drama: "DM Serif Display" Italic. Data: `"Space Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** concrete, brutalist architecture, raw materials, industrial.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Direct verb] the" (Bold Sans) / "[System noun]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset D — "Vapor Clinic" (Neon Biotech)
- **Identity:** A genome sequencing lab inside a Tokyo nightclub.
- **Palette:** Deep Void `#0A0A14` (Primary), Plasma `#7B61FF` (Accent), Ghost `#F0EFF4` (Background), Graphite `#18181B` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Sora" (tight tracking). Drama: "Instrument Serif" Italic. Data: `"Fira Code"`.
- **Image Mood:** bioluminescence, dark water, neon reflections, microscopy.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Tech noun] beyond" (Bold Sans) / "[Boundary word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

---

## Fixed Design System (NEVER CHANGE)

These rules apply to ALL presets. They are what make the output premium.

### Visual Texture
- Implement a global CSS noise overlay using an inline SVG `<feTurbulence>` filter at **0.05 opacity** to eliminate flat digital gradients.
- Use a `rounded-[2rem]` to `rounded-[3rem]` radius system for all containers. No sharp corners anywhere.

### Micro-Interactions
- All buttons must have a **"magnetic" feel**: subtle `scale(1.03)` on hover with `cubic-bezier(0.25, 0.46, 0.45, 0.94)`.
- Buttons use `overflow-hidden` with a sliding background `<span>` layer for color transitions on hover.
- Links and interactive elements get a `translateY(-1px)` lift on hover.

### Animation Lifecycle
- Use `gsap.context()` within `useEffect` for ALL animations. Return `ctx.revert()` in the cleanup function.
- Default easing: `power3.out` for entrances, `power2.inOut` for morphs.
- Stagger value: `0.08` for text, `0.15` for cards/containers.

---

## Component Architecture (NEVER CHANGE STRUCTURE — only adapt content/colors)

### A. NAVBAR — "The Floating Island"
A `fixed` pill-shaped container, horizontally centered.
- **Morphing Logic:** Transparent with light text at hero top. Transitions to `bg-[background]/60 backdrop-blur-xl` with primary-colored text and a subtle `border` when scrolled past the hero. Use `IntersectionObserver` or ScrollTrigger.
- Contains: Logo (brand name as text), 3-4 nav links, CTA button (accent color).

### B. HERO SECTION — "The Opening Shot"
- `100dvh` height. Full-bleed background image (sourced from Unsplash matching preset's `imageMood`) with a heavy **primary-to-black gradient overlay** (`bg-gradient-to-t`).
- **Layout:** Content pushed to the **bottom-left third** using flex + padding.
- **Typography:** Large scale contrast following the preset's hero line pattern. First part in bold sans heading font. Second part in massive serif italic drama font (3-5x size difference).
- **Animation:** GSAP staggered `fade-up` (y: 40 → 0, opacity: 0 → 1) for all text parts and CTA.
- CTA button below the headline, using the accent color.

### C. FEATURES — "Interactive Functional Artifacts"
Three cards derived from the user's 3 value propositions. These must feel like **functional software micro-UIs**, not static marketing cards. Each card gets one of these interaction patterns:

**Card 1 — "Diagnostic Shuffler":** 3 overlapping cards that cycle vertically using `array.unshift(array.pop())` logic every 3 seconds with a spring-bounce transition (`cubic-bezier(0.34, 1.56, 0.64, 1)`). Labels derived from user's first value prop (generate 3 sub-labels).

**Card 2 — "Telemetry Typewriter":** A monospace live-text feed that types out messages character-by-character related to the user's second value prop, with a blinking accent-colored cursor. Include a "Live Feed" label with a pulsing dot.

**Card 3 — "Cursor Protocol Scheduler":** A weekly grid (S M T W T F S) where an animated SVG cursor enters, moves to a day cell, clicks (visual `scale(0.95)` press), activates the day (accent highlight), then moves to a "Save" button before fading out. Labels from user's third value prop.

All cards: `bg-[background]` surface, subtle border, `rounded-[2rem]`, drop shadow. Each card has a heading (sans bold) and a brief descriptor.

### D. PHILOSOPHY — "The Manifesto"
- Full-width section with the **dark color** as background.
- A parallaxing organic texture image (Unsplash, `imageMood` keywords) at low opacity behind the text.
- **Typography:** Two contrasting statements. Pattern:
  - "Most [industry] focuses on: [common approach]." — neutral, smaller.
  - "We focus on: [differentiated approach]." — massive, drama serif italic, accent-colored keyword.
- **Animation:** GSAP `SplitText`-style reveal (word-by-word or line-by-line fade-up) triggered by ScrollTrigger.

### E. PROTOCOL — "Sticky Stacking Archive"
3 full-screen cards that stack on scroll.
- **Stacking Interaction:** Using GSAP ScrollTrigger with `pin: true`. As a new card scrolls into view, the card underneath scales to `0.9`, blurs to `20px`, and fades to `0.5`.
- **Each card gets a unique canvas/SVG animation:**
  1. A slowly rotating geometric motif (double-helix, concentric circles, or gear teeth).
  2. A scanning horizontal laser-line moving across a grid of dots/cells.
  3. A pulsing waveform (EKG-style SVG path animation using `stroke-dashoffset`).
- Card content: Step number (monospace), title (heading font), 2-line description. Derive from user's brand purpose.

### F. MEMBERSHIP / PRICING
- Three-tier pricing grid. Card names: "Essential", "Performance", "Enterprise" (adjust to fit brand).
- **Middle card pops:** Primary-colored background with an accent CTA button. Slightly larger scale or `ring` border.
- If pricing doesn't apply, convert this into a "Get Started" section with a single large CTA.

### G. FOOTER
- Deep dark-colored background, `rounded-t-[4rem]`.
- Grid layout: Brand name + tagline, navigation columns, legal links.
- **"System Operational" status indicator** with a pulsing green dot and monospace label.

---

## Technical Requirements (NEVER CHANGE)

- **Stack:** React 19, Tailwind CSS v3.4.17, GSAP 3 (with ScrollTrigger plugin), Lucide React for icons.
- **Fonts:** Load via Google Fonts `<link>` tags in `index.html` based on the selected preset.
- **Images:** Use real Unsplash URLs. Select images matching the preset's `imageMood`. Never use placeholder URLs.
- **File structure:** Single `App.jsx` with components defined in the same file (or split into `components/` if >600 lines). Single `index.css` for Tailwind directives + noise overlay + custom utilities.
- **No placeholders.** Every card, every label, every animation must be fully implemented and functional.
- **Responsive:** Mobile-first. Stack cards vertically on mobile. Reduce hero font sizes. Collapse navbar into a minimal version.

---

## Build Sequence

After receiving answers to the 4 questions:

1. Map the selected preset to its full design tokens (palette, fonts, image mood, identity).
2. Generate hero copy using the brand name + purpose + preset's hero line pattern.
3. Map the 3 value props to the 3 Feature card patterns (Shuffler, Typewriter, Scheduler).
4. Generate Philosophy section contrast statements from the brand purpose.
5. Generate Protocol steps from the brand's process/methodology.
6. Scaffold the project: `npm create vite@latest`, install deps, write all files.
7. Ensure every animation is wired, every interaction works, every image loads.

**Execution Directive:** "Do not build a website; build a digital instrument. Every scroll should feel intentional, every animation should feel weighted and professional. Eradicate all generic AI patterns."
```

Commit message:

tested new prompt for webdev ui

content/blog/z-idea-2-execution-dao.md, after:

---
title: "Are agents and DAOs the inevitable future?"
date: 2026-02-28T08:00:21+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["Crypto","LLMs","Gresham"]
description: 'The AI Driven Business x Unit Economics 107'
url: 'ideas-to-execution-with-dao'
math: true
---

**TL;DR**

Is this what future will look like?

* https://app.fireflies.ai/perks
* Perplexity and commet (from W11 only on the desktop) 

**Intro**

Imagine whats next when LLMs/Agents can go from general ideas to epic/tasks

And from tasks to solutions.

Yes, they also understand about business games and what profit is:

follows the *full stack business formula* from top line, to net profit:

$$
P \times V \times GM \times OM \times IF \times T
$$

## What is desirable?

How will agents know what to do?

Or better: How will they know what other agents might find useful?

Pure randomness?

Or...Information?

If so: Which information?

Many people dont agree that Prices are amazing signals that consolidate huge data points.

I doubt that agents would skip the power of Prices.


So, whats stopping them from: *Data -> Decision -> Delivery* ?


### Price = Data

How could this be different?

Well, it can be whenever we try to *fix reality*.

But code does not like to be twisted.

Or if it is, there is [a trace of what happened](#for-crypto-bros).


### Agentic Stories

Who could have guessed that models with 1M context tokens are already exceeding most BA's.

Specially those who dont take notes, or if anything, write a comment in teams chat while taking requirements.

![Meme - Fantastic](/blog_img/memes/bertin-osborne-incredible.gif)


### Agentic SDLC

Generating UIs is a joke already.

And Gemini 3.1 takes it to the next level.

Will this stop been a joke? 

No. In fact...

* https://www.pencil.dev/
* https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/comments/1q403xw/claude_code_for_noncoding_projectswork_a_complete/
* https://polymarket.com/event/which-company-has-the-best-ai-model-end-of-february

```sh
#https://5ykymftd1soethh5.public.blob.vercel-storage.com/Pencil-linux-x86_64.AppImage
wget -P ~/Applications https://5ykymftd1soethh5.public.blob.vercel-storage.com/Pencil-linux-x86_64.AppImage #thanks to appimage launcher

npm i -g @openai/codex
codex

#wget https://github.com/Cuperino/QPrompt-Teleprompter/releases/download/v1.1.6/qprompt-v1.1.6-51788eb-linux-gcc-x86_64.AppImage
```


| Feature | **Claude Code** | **Gemini CLI** | **Codex CLI** | **OpenCode CLI** | **Kiro CLI** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Model Focus** | Claude 3.5/4.0 | Gemini 1.5/2.0 | GPT-4o / GPT-5 | **Model Agnostic** | Proprietary Agents |
| **Best For** | High-quality logic | Large codebases | Rapid feature dev | Privacy/Flexibility | Complex Workflows |
| **Key Strength** | 95% "first-try" accuracy | 1M+ context window | CI/CD & GitHub | Local/Custom models | Multi-agent pipelines |
| **Pricing** | $20/mo (Claude Pro) | Generous Free Tier | OpenAI Subscription | Free (BYO API Key) | Paid/Enterprise |
| **Context File** | `CLAUDE.md` | `GEMINI.md` | `AGENTS.md` | Configurable | `steering.kiro` |

> Are websites development [skills a commodity](#for-vibe-coders) already?

> > Its clear that your clients money is a commodity, but...so seems to be web dev and in general any ~~digital tech~~ skill



### Agentic Delivery

Are we ready for destruction creative?

It doesnt matter.


#### Crypto and DAO

Few years ago I got to know about ENS where you could buy forever a domain.

One of such domains were .dao which is decentralized autonomous organization.

This gets crazy when we put together all previous points.

---

## Conclusions

Are we moving forward to such future?

With digital employees / co-workers or even...pure digital agent driven companies?

I just can say that at this point of interacting for few years with LLMs **I have more questions than answers**.

Some part because im stepping back and reviewing concepts like: whats basic? whats a cool website? whats learning?

But as I see it: these questions are having higher quality.

Or at least: im more aware of my hypothesis and blinds spots / converging logics

> After all...those ,failed' vibe coded PoCs were just a miss from my initial ask and clarifications


### Services

If you haven't realized yet: there is no passive income, just active *and deferred active is just active*

One of the ways You can scale your active income with knowledge: *pay with money, or with time, depending which you value the least* #Gresham

{{< cards >}}
  {{< card link="https://consulting.jalcocertech.com" title="Consulting Services" image="/blog_img/entrepre/tiersofservice/dwi/selfh-landing-astro-fastapi-bot.png" subtitle="Consulting - Tier of Service" >}}
  {{< card link="https://ebooks.jalcocertech.com" title="DIY via ebooks" image="/blog_img/shipping/dna-1ton-ebook.png" subtitle="Distilled knowledge via web/ooks to enable you to create" >}}
{{< /cards >}}

---

## FAQ

The context to move forward comes from:

* Questions
* The reply *based on ,mental' models* that we (or agents) give to them


### For crypto bros

This is how some explain Prices: https://data.bitcoinity.org/markets/books/USD

The so called the order books: an ever evolving match between buyers and sellers

* https://blockdyor.com/why-running-a-lightning-node/
* https://github.com/besoeasy/yantr - It should remind you to UmbrelOS

> YANTR is a cross-platform Docker App Store that makes server-grade self-hosting easy and flexible. It gives you ready-to-run apps — from Bitcoin nodes to file converters and privacy tools — all in lightweight Docker containers.

* https://dune.com/home
* https://defillama.com/yields?project=Aave%20V3
* https://aavescan.com/ethereum-v3/usdc

![Aave v3 lending ETH and USDT](/blog_img/crypto/defi/aave-eth-and-usdt.png)


There are people who try to build **models** to explain reality

* [Power Law](https://jalcocert.github.io/JAlcocerT/powerlaw-and-series-with-python/) based: `https://timetobuybitcoin.com/`

> That reminded me somehow to the GWeiss method. Somehow.

* https://forocoches.com/foro/showthread.php?t=10597594
* https://x.com/0xAralez/status/2020233840258945291

{{< tweet user="0xAralez" id="2020233840258945291" >}}



Not sure if the order of the things is right though


### For Vibe Coders

People have a different BRD/PRD/FRD approach, that just works: 

* https://code.claude.com/docs


```sh
#sudo apt install gh
gh auth login
#gh repo create btc-powerlaw --private --source=. --remote=origin --push
    
git init && git add . && git commit -m "Initial commit: simple btc-powerlaw" && gh repo create btc-powerlaw --private --source=. --remote=origin --push
codex
#/resume
```

Get an idea/PoC, plug the prompt below and let your eyes enjoy:

![alt text](/blog_img/crypto/btc/cycles-data.png)

<!-- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=czLrUyA_Bh4 -->

{{< youtube "czLrUyA_Bh4" >}}


One shot web UIs with `GEMINI.md`

```md
# Cinematic Landing Page Builder

## Role

Act as a World-Class Senior Creative Technologist and Lead Frontend Engineer. You build high-fidelity, cinematic "1:1 Pixel Perfect" landing pages. 

Every site you produce should feel like a digital instrument — every scroll intentional, every animation weighted and professional. Eradicate all generic AI patterns.

## Agent Flow — MUST FOLLOW

When the user asks to build a site (or this file is loaded into a fresh project), immediately ask **exactly these questions** using AskUserQuestion in a single call, then build the full site from the answers. Do not ask follow-ups. Do not over-discuss. Build.

### Questions (all in one AskUserQuestion call)

1. **"What's the brand name and one-line purpose?"** — Free text. Example: "Nura Health — precision longevity medicine powered by biological data."
2. **"Pick an aesthetic direction"** — Single-select from the presets below. Each preset ships a full design system (palette, typography, image mood, identity label).
3. **"What are your 3 key value propositions?"** — Free text. Brief phrases. These become the Features section cards.
4. **"What should visitors do?"** — Free text. The primary CTA. Example: "Join the waitlist", "Book a consultation", "Start free trial".

---

## Aesthetic Presets

Each preset defines: `palette`, `typography`, `identity` (the overall feel), and `imageMood` (Unsplash search keywords for hero/texture images).

### Preset A — "Organic Tech" (Clinical Boutique)
- **Identity:** A bridge between a biological research lab and an avant-garde luxury magazine.
- **Palette:** Moss `#2E4036` (Primary), Clay `#CC5833` (Accent), Cream `#F2F0E9` (Background), Charcoal `#1A1A1A` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Plus Jakarta Sans" + "Outfit" (tight tracking). Drama: "Cormorant Garamond" Italic. Data: `"IBM Plex Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** dark forest, organic textures, moss, ferns, laboratory glassware.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Concept noun] is the" (Bold Sans) / "[Power word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset B — "Midnight Luxe" (Dark Editorial)
- **Identity:** A private members' club meets a high-end watchmaker's atelier.
- **Palette:** Obsidian `#0D0D12` (Primary), Champagne `#C9A84C` (Accent), Ivory `#FAF8F5` (Background), Slate `#2A2A35` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Inter" (tight tracking). Drama: "Playfair Display" Italic. Data: `"JetBrains Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** dark marble, gold accents, architectural shadows, luxury interiors.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Aspirational noun] meets" (Bold Sans) / "[Precision word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset C — "Brutalist Signal" (Raw Precision)
- **Identity:** A control room for the future — no decoration, pure information density.
- **Palette:** Paper `#E8E4DD` (Primary), Signal Red `#E63B2E` (Accent), Off-white `#F5F3EE` (Background), Black `#111111` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Space Grotesk" (tight tracking). Drama: "DM Serif Display" Italic. Data: `"Space Mono"`.
- **Image Mood:** concrete, brutalist architecture, raw materials, industrial.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Direct verb] the" (Bold Sans) / "[System noun]." (Massive Serif Italic)

### Preset D — "Vapor Clinic" (Neon Biotech)
- **Identity:** A genome sequencing lab inside a Tokyo nightclub.
- **Palette:** Deep Void `#0A0A14` (Primary), Plasma `#7B61FF` (Accent), Ghost `#F0EFF4` (Background), Graphite `#18181B` (Text/Dark)
- **Typography:** Headings: "Sora" (tight tracking). Drama: "Instrument Serif" Italic. Data: `"Fira Code"`.
- **Image Mood:** bioluminescence, dark water, neon reflections, microscopy.
- **Hero line pattern:** "[Tech noun] beyond" (Bold Sans) / "[Boundary word]." (Massive Serif Italic)

---

## Fixed Design System (NEVER CHANGE)

These rules apply to ALL presets. They are what make the output premium.

### Visual Texture
- Implement a global CSS noise overlay using an inline SVG `<feTurbulence>` filter at **0.05 opacity** to eliminate flat digital gradients.
- Use a `rounded-[2rem]` to `rounded-[3rem]` radius system for all containers. No sharp corners anywhere.

### Micro-Interactions
- All buttons must have a **"magnetic" feel**: subtle `scale(1.03)` on hover with `cubic-bezier(0.25, 0.46, 0.45, 0.94)`.
- Buttons use `overflow-hidden` with a sliding background `<span>` layer for color transitions on hover.
- Links and interactive elements get a `translateY(-1px)` lift on hover.

### Animation Lifecycle
- Use `gsap.context()` within `useEffect` for ALL animations. Return `ctx.revert()` in the cleanup function.
- Default easing: `power3.out` for entrances, `power2.inOut` for morphs.
- Stagger value: `0.08` for text, `0.15` for cards/containers.

---

## Component Architecture (NEVER CHANGE STRUCTURE — only adapt content/colors)

### A. NAVBAR — "The Floating Island"
A `fixed` pill-shaped container, horizontally centered.
- **Morphing Logic:** Transparent with light text at hero top. Transitions to `bg-[background]/60 backdrop-blur-xl` with primary-colored text and a subtle `border` when scrolled past the hero. Use `IntersectionObserver` or ScrollTrigger.
- Contains: Logo (brand name as text), 3-4 nav links, CTA button (accent color).

### B. HERO SECTION — "The Opening Shot"
- `100dvh` height. Full-bleed background image (sourced from Unsplash matching preset's `imageMood`) with a heavy **primary-to-black gradient overlay** (`bg-gradient-to-t`).
- **Layout:** Content pushed to the **bottom-left third** using flex + padding.
- **Typography:** Large scale contrast following the preset's hero line pattern. First part in bold sans heading font. Second part in massive serif italic drama font (3-5x size difference).
- **Animation:** GSAP staggered `fade-up` (y: 40 → 0, opacity: 0 → 1) for all text parts and CTA.
- CTA button below the headline, using the accent color.

### C. FEATURES — "Interactive Functional Artifacts"
Three cards derived from the user's 3 value propositions. These must feel like **functional software micro-UIs**, not static marketing cards. Each card gets one of these interaction patterns:

**Card 1 — "Diagnostic Shuffler":** 3 overlapping cards that cycle vertically using `array.unshift(array.pop())` logic every 3 seconds with a spring-bounce transition (`cubic-bezier(0.34, 1.56, 0.64, 1)`). Labels derived from user's first value prop (generate 3 sub-labels).

**Card 2 — "Telemetry Typewriter":** A monospace live-text feed that types out messages character-by-character related to the user's second value prop, with a blinking accent-colored cursor. Include a "Live Feed" label with a pulsing dot.

**Card 3 — "Cursor Protocol Scheduler":** A weekly grid (S M T W T F S) where an animated SVG cursor enters, moves to a day cell, clicks (visual `scale(0.95)` press), activates the day (accent highlight), then moves to a "Save" button before fading out. Labels from user's third value prop.

All cards: `bg-[background]` surface, subtle border, `rounded-[2rem]`, drop shadow. Each card has a heading (sans bold) and a brief descriptor.

### D. PHILOSOPHY — "The Manifesto"
- Full-width section with the **dark color** as background.
- A parallaxing organic texture image (Unsplash, `imageMood` keywords) at low opacity behind the text.
- **Typography:** Two contrasting statements. Pattern:
  - "Most [industry] focuses on: [common approach]." — neutral, smaller.
  - "We focus on: [differentiated approach]." — massive, drama serif italic, accent-colored keyword.
- **Animation:** GSAP `SplitText`-style reveal (word-by-word or line-by-line fade-up) triggered by ScrollTrigger.

### E. PROTOCOL — "Sticky Stacking Archive"
3 full-screen cards that stack on scroll.
- **Stacking Interaction:** Using GSAP ScrollTrigger with `pin: true`. As a new card scrolls into view, the card underneath scales to `0.9`, blurs to `20px`, and fades to `0.5`.
- **Each card gets a unique canvas/SVG animation:**
  1. A slowly rotating geometric motif (double-helix, concentric circles, or gear teeth).
  2. A scanning horizontal laser-line moving across a grid of dots/cells.
  3. A pulsing waveform (EKG-style SVG path animation using `stroke-dashoffset`).
- Card content: Step number (monospace), title (heading font), 2-line description. Derive from user's brand purpose.

### F. MEMBERSHIP / PRICING
- Three-tier pricing grid. Card names: "Essential", "Performance", "Enterprise" (adjust to fit brand).
- **Middle card pops:** Primary-colored background with an accent CTA button. Slightly larger scale or `ring` border.
- If pricing doesn't apply, convert this into a "Get Started" section with a single large CTA.

### G. FOOTER
- Deep dark-colored background, `rounded-t-[4rem]`.
- Grid layout: Brand name + tagline, navigation columns, legal links.
- **"System Operational" status indicator** with a pulsing green dot and monospace label.

---

## Technical Requirements (NEVER CHANGE)

- **Stack:** React 19, Tailwind CSS v3.4.17, GSAP 3 (with ScrollTrigger plugin), Lucide React for icons.
- **Fonts:** Load via Google Fonts `<link>` tags in `index.html` based on the selected preset.
- **Images:** Use real Unsplash URLs. Select images matching the preset's `imageMood`. Never use placeholder URLs.
- **File structure:** Single `App.jsx` with components defined in the same file (or split into `components/` if >600 lines). Single `index.css` for Tailwind directives + noise overlay + custom utilities.
- **No placeholders.** Every card, every label, every animation must be fully implemented and functional.
- **Responsive:** Mobile-first. Stack cards vertically on mobile. Reduce hero font sizes. Collapse navbar into a minimal version.

---

## Build Sequence

After receiving answers to the 4 questions:

1. Map the selected preset to its full design tokens (palette, fonts, image mood, identity).
2. Generate hero copy using the brand name + purpose + preset's hero line pattern.
3. Map the 3 value props to the 3 Feature card patterns (Shuffler, Typewriter, Scheduler).
4. Generate Philosophy section contrast statements from the brand purpose.
5. Generate Protocol steps from the brand's process/methodology.
6. Scaffold the project: `npm create vite@latest`, install deps, write all files.
7. Ensure every animation is wired, every interaction works, every image loads.

**Execution Directive:** "Do not build a website; build a digital instrument. Every scroll should feel intentional, every animation should feel weighted and professional. Eradicate all generic AI patterns."
```
